1. Folia Med (Plovdiv). 1992;34(1):19-24.

Expression of ABO blood-group antigenic determinants identified by monoclonal 
antibodies B7H4 and D1E8 in normal human tissues and organs.

Sarafian V(1), Taskov H, Popov A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biology, University of Medicine, Plovdiv, Bulgaria.

Human blood group antigens are genetically determined structures of undefined 
nature found not only in red blood cells but also in various tissues. Monoclonal 
antibodies against A and B human blood group antigens (B7H4 and D1E8) were 
obtained. Their tissue compatibility was tested in 11 different normal human 
organs taken from people with A1 and B blood group phenotypes. The 
antigen-antibody reaction was visualized using the indirect immunoperoxidase 
technique. The results of the study showed that the antibodies B7H4 and D1E8 
react specifically with the tissue blood group antigens in healthy subjects. The 
findings obtained in most of the tested organs were in accord with those 
described by other researchers. Differences were found only in the stomach, 
urothelium, the lungs and the thyroid gland. A possible explanation of the 
results is the difference in the epitopes recognized by the monoclonal 
antibodies used by us and the blood group antibodies applied by other 
researchers. It is suggested that the monoclonal antibodies against the human 
blood group antigens A and B obtained by us could be used to establish suspected 
modification of ABH-antigens in the process of oncogenesis.

PMID: 1285059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Immunity. 2003 Jun;18(6):849-61. doi: 10.1016/s1074-7613(03)00152-3.

B7-H4, a molecule of the B7 family, negatively regulates T cell immunity.

Sica GL(1), Choi IH, Zhu G, Tamada K, Wang SD, Tamura H, Chapoval AI, Flies DB, 
Bajorath J, Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Mayo Medical and Graduate Schools, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

We identify a B7 family molecule, B7-H4, by protein sequence analysis and 
comparative molecular modeling. While B7-H4 mRNA is widely distributed in mouse 
and human peripheral tissues, cell surface expression of B7-H4 protein is 
limited and shows an inducible pattern on hematopoietic cells. Putative receptor 
of B7-H4 can be upregulated on activated T cells. By arresting cell cycle, B7-H4 
ligation of T cells has a profound inhibitory effect on the growth, cytokine 
secretion, and development of cytotoxicity. Administration of B7-H4Ig into mice 
impairs antigen-specific T cell responses whereas blockade of endogenous B7-H4 
by specific monoclonal antibody promotes T cell responses. B7-H4 thus may 
participate in negative regulation of cell-mediated immunity in peripheral 
tissues.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-7613(03)00152-3
PMID: 12818165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Trends Immunol. 2003 Oct;24(10):524-7. doi: 10.1016/j.it.2003.08.005.

BTLA: a new inhibitory receptor with a B7-like ligand.

Carreno BM(1), Collins M.

Author information:
(1)Inflammation, Wyeth Research, 200 Cambridge Park Drive, Cambridge, MA 02140, 
USA. bcarreno@wyeth.com

The B and T lymphocyte attenuator, BTLA, is a recently discovered Ig superfamily 
member. BTLA engagement results in downregulation of T-cell activation, and mice 
deficient in BTLA show increased incidence and severity of autoimmune disorders. 
A novel B7 family member, B7x (B7S1, B7-H4), has been proposed as the ligand for 
BTLA. A B7x-Ig fusion protein inhibits T-cell activation and interleukin-2 
(IL-2) production. Thus, cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4), programmed 
death-1 (PD-1) and BTLA comprise an expanding set of inhibitory receptors 
expressed on lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.it.2003.08.005
PMID: 14552835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Immunol. 2003 Nov 1;171(9):4650-4. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.171.9.4650.

Genomic organization and expression analysis of B7-H4, an immune inhibitory 
molecule of the B7 family.

Choi IH(1), Zhu G, Sica GL, Strome SE, Cheville JC, Lau JS, Zhu Y, Flies DB, 
Tamada K, Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Mayo Graduate and Medical Schools, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

B7-H4 is a recently identified B7 family member that negatively regulates T cell 
immunity by the inhibition of T cell proliferation, cytokine production, and 
cell cycle progression. In this study, we report that the genomic DNA of human 
B7-H4 is mapped on chromosome 1 comprised of six exons and five introns spanning 
66 kb, of which exon 6 is used for alternative splicing to generate two 
different transcripts. Similar B7-H4 structure is also found in mouse genomic 
DNA in chromosome 3. A human B7-H4 pseudogene is identified in chromosome 
20p11.1 with a single exon and two stop codons in the coding region. 
Immunohistochemistry analysis using B7-H4-specific mAb demonstrates that B7-H4 
is not expressed on the majority of normal human tissues. In contrast, up to 85% 
(22 of 26) of ovarian cancer and 31% (5 of 16) of lung cancer tissues 
constitutively express B7-H4. Our results indicate a tight regulation of B7-H4 
expression in the translational level in normal peripheral tissues and a 
potential role of B7-H4 in the evasion of tumor immunity.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.171.9.4650
PMID: 14568939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Microbes Infect. 2004 Jul;6(8):759-66. doi: 10.1016/j.micinf.2004.03.007.

Co-signaling molecules of the B7-CD28 family in positive and negative regulation 
of T lymphocyte responses.

Wang S(1), Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Mayo Clinic Cancer Center, Mayo Clinic College of 
Medicine, 200 First St. SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Co-signaling molecules in the B7-CD28 family have been intensively studied over 
the past decade and have brought much excitement to the field of immune 
regulation. The discovery of new functions for the classical pathways 
CD80/CD86/CD28/CTLA-4 and the identification of novel pathways of the family, 
including B7-H1/B7-DC/PD-1, B7-H2/ICOS, B7-H3, B7-H4 and BTLA, are greatly 
broadening our understanding of the control of T cell-mediated immune responses 
and tolerance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micinf.2004.03.007
PMID: 15207823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Clin Cancer Res. 2005 Mar 1;11(5):1842-8. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-04-1658.

B7-h4 is highly expressed in ductal and lobular breast cancer.

Tringler B(1), Zhuo S, Pilkington G, Torkko KC, Singh M, Lucia MS, Heinz DE, 
Papkoff J, Shroyer KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, 4200 
East Ninth Avenue, Denver, CO 80262, USA.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to investigate the expression of B7-H4 protein, 
a member of the B7 family that is involved in the regulation of antigen-specific 
immune responses, in normal breast and in primary and metastatic breast 
carcinomas.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Archival formalin-fixed tissue blocks from breast cancers 
and normal somatic tissues were evaluated for B7-H4 expression by 
immunohistochemistry with manual and automated image analysis. The proportion of 
B7-H4-positive cells and the intensity of B7-H4 staining were compared with 
histologic type, grade, stage, hormone receptor status, and HER-2/neu status.
RESULTS: B7-H4 was detected in 165 of 173 (95.4%) primary breast cancers and in 
240 of 246 (97.6%) metastatic breast cancers. B7-H4 staining intensity was 
greater in invasive ductal carcinomas [24.61 relative units (RU)] and in 
invasive lobular carcinomas (15.23 RU) than in normal breast epithelium (4.30 
RU, P = 0.0003). Increased staining intensity was associated with negative 
progesterone receptor status (P = 0.014) and history of neoadjuvant chemotherapy 
(P = 0.004), and the proportion of B7-H4-positive cells was associated with 
negative progesterone receptor (P = 0.001) and negative HER-2/neu (P = 0.024) 
status. However, there was no statistically significant relationship between the 
proportion of B7-H4-positive cells or staining intensity and grade, stage, or 
other clinicopathologic variables. Low levels of B7-H4 expression were also 
detected in epithelial cells of the female genital tract, lung, pancreas, and 
kidney, but B7-H4 was generally absent in most other normal somatic tissues.
CONCLUSIONS: The nearly ubiquitous expression of B7-H4 in breast cancer, 
independent of tumor grade or stage, suggests a critical role for this protein 
in breast cancer biology.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-04-1658
PMID: 15756008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Annu Rev Immunol. 2005;23:515-48. doi:
10.1146/annurev.immunol.23.021704.115611.

The B7 family revisited.

Greenwald RJ(1), Freeman GJ, Sharpe AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School and Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. rgreenwald@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

The discovery of new functions for the original B7 family members, together with 
the identification of additional B7 and CD28 family members, have revealed new 
ways in which the B7:CD28 family regulates T cell activation and tolerance. 
B7-1/B7-2:CD28 interactions not only promote initial T cell activation but also 
regulate self-tolerance by supporting CD4+CD25+ T regulatory cell homeostasis. 
CTLA-4 can exert its inhibitory effects in both B7-1/B7-2 dependent and 
independent fashions. B7-1 and B7-2 can signal bidirectionally by engaging CD28 
and CTLA-4 on T cells and by delivering signals into B7-expressing cells. The 
five new B7 family members, ICOS ligand, PD-L1 (B7-H1), PD-L2 (B7-DC), B7-H3, 
and B7-H4 (B7x/B7-S1) are expressed on professional antigen-presenting cells as 
well as on cells within nonlymphoid organs, providing new means for regulating T 
cell activation and tolerance in peripheral tissues. The new CD28 families 
members, ICOS, PD-1, and BTLA, are inducibly expressed on T cells, and they have 
important roles in regulating previously activated T cells. PD-1 and BTLA also 
are expressed on B cells and may have broader immunoregulatory functions. The 
ICOS:ICOSL pathway appears to be particularly important for stimulating effector 
T cell responses and T cell-dependent B cell responses, but it also has an 
important role in regulating T cell tolerance. In addition, the PD-1:PD-L1/PD-L2 
pathway plays a critical role in regulating T cell activation and tolerance. In 
this review, we revisit the roles of the B7:CD28 family members in regulating 
immune responses, and we discuss their therapeutic potential.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.immunol.23.021704.115611
PMID: 15771580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Exp Cell Res. 2005 May 15;306(1):128-41. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2005.01.018.

The immunomodulatory protein B7-H4 is overexpressed in breast and ovarian 
cancers and promotes epithelial cell transformation.

Salceda S(1), Tang T, Kmet M, Munteanu A, Ghosh M, Macina R, Liu W, Pilkington 
G, Papkoff J.

Author information:
(1)diaDexus, Inc., 343 Oyster Point Boulevard, South San Francisco, CA 94080, 
USA.

B7-H4 protein is expressed on the surface of a variety of immune cells and 
functions as a negative regulator of T cell responses. We independently 
identified B7-H4 (DD-O110) through a genomic effort to discover genes 
upregulated in tumors and here we describe a new functional role for B7-H4 
protein in cancer. We show that B7-H4 mRNA and protein are overexpressed in 
human serous ovarian cancers and breast cancers with relatively little or no 
expression in normal tissues. B7-H4 protein is extensively glycosylated and 
displayed on the surface of tumor cells and we provide the first demonstration 
of a direct role for B7-H4 in promoting malignant transformation of epithelial 
cells. Overexpression of B7-H4 in a human ovarian cancer cell line with little 
endogenous B7-H4 expression increased tumor formation in SCID mice. Whereas 
overexpression of B7-H4 protected epithelial cells from anoikis, siRNA-mediated 
knockdown of B7-H4 mRNA and protein expression in a breast cancer cell line 
increased caspase activity and apoptosis. The restricted normal tissue 
distribution of B7-H4, its overexpression in a majority of breast and ovarian 
cancers and functional activity in transformation validate this cell surface 
protein as a new target for therapeutic intervention. A therapeutic antibody 
strategy aimed at B7-H4 could offer an exciting opportunity to inhibit the 
growth and progression of human ovarian and breast cancers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2005.01.018
PMID: 15878339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Genome Biol. 2005;6(6):223. doi: 10.1186/gb-2005-6-6-223. Epub 2005 May 31.

The B7 family of immune-regulatory ligands.

Collins M(1), Ling V, Carreno BM.

Author information:
(1)Wyeth Research, 200 Cambridge Park Drive, Cambridge, MA 02140, USA. 
marycollins@wyeth.com

The B7 family consists of structurally related, cell-surface protein ligands, 
which bind to receptors on lymphocytes that regulate immune responses. 
Activation of T and B lymphocytes is initiated by engagement of cell-surface, 
antigen-specific T-cell receptors or B-cell receptors, but additional signals 
delivered simultaneously by B7 ligands determine the ultimate immune response. 
These 'costimulatory' or 'coinhibitory' signals are delivered by B7 ligands 
through the CD28 family of receptors on lymphocytes. Interaction of B7-family 
members with costimulatory receptors augments immune responses, and interaction 
with coinhibitory receptors attenuates immune responses. There are currently 
seven known members of the family: B7.1 (CD80), B7.2 (CD86), inducible 
costimulator ligand (ICOS-L), programmed death-1 ligand (PD-L1), programmed 
death-2 ligand (PD-L2), B7-H3, and B7-H4. Members of the family have been 
characterized predominantly in humans and mice, but some members are also found 
in birds. They share 20-40% amino-acid identity and are structurally related, 
with the extracellular domain containing tandem domains related to variable and 
constant immunoglobulin domains. B7 ligands are expressed in lymphoid and 
non-lymphoid tissues. The importance of the family in regulating immune 
responses is shown by the development of immunodeficiency and autoimmune 
diseases in mice with mutations in B7-family genes. Manipulation of the signals 
delivered by B7 ligands has shown potential in the treatment of autoimmunity, 
inflammatory diseases and cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/gb-2005-6-6-223
PMCID: PMC1175965
PMID: 15960813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Front Biosci. 2005 Sep 1;10:2856-60. doi: 10.2741/1742.

Role of B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules in down-regulating effector phase of T-cell 
immunity: novel cancer escaping mechanisms.

Ichikawa M(1), Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Institute for Cell Engineering, The Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, 600 N. Wolfe Street, Jefferson 1-121 Baltimore, 
Maryland 21287, USA.

The majority of human and rodent cancers display various antigens which could 
elicit cellular and humoral immune responses. Such immunity, however, often 
fails to prevent progressive growth of cancers. It has long been speculated that 
tumor antigens may not be presented in appropriate fashion, which subsequently 
fails to elicit a strong immune response. Recent studies, however, indicate that 
immunization by formulated tumor antigens or even transfer of pre-activated T 
lymphocytes also have limited impact on cancer growth despite the fact that 
these methods could often enhance immune responses in cancer patients. These 
findings imply that even afferent arm of immunity are strengthen, it is not 
necessarily being translated to tumor regression. It is possible that the 
development of evasion mechanisms in tumor microenvironment play a critical role 
in the resistance of therapeutic immune responses. Recent studies provide 
compelling evidence that human and rodent cancers develop evasion mechanisms by 
aberrantly expressing normal proteins, which are required for normal tissue 
homeostasis, to either build a microenvironment locally or reach other organs 
systemically. In this review, we will focus our discussion on two recently 
described molecules, B7-H1 and B7-H4, in the context of their roles in the 
evasion of tumor immunity and possible approaches for therapeutic manipulation.

DOI: 10.2741/1742
PMID: 15970540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Gynecol Oncol. 2006 Jan;100(1):44-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2005.08.060. Epub 
2005 Oct 26.

B7-H4 overexpression in ovarian tumors.

Tringler B(1), Liu W, Corral L, Torkko KC, Enomoto T, Davidson S, Lucia MS, 
Heinz DE, Papkoff J, Shroyer KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center, 
B-216, 4200 East Ninth Avenue, Denver, CO 80262, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Despite great advances in therapeutic management, the mortality rate 
for ovarian cancer has remained relatively stable over the past 50 years. This 
study was designed to evaluate the expression of B7-H4 protein, recently 
identified as a potential molecular marker of breast and ovarian cancer by 
quantitative PCR analysis, in benign tumors, tumors of low malignant potential 
and malignant tumors of the ovary.
METHODS: Archival formalin-fixed tissue blocks from serous, mucinous, 
endometrioid and clear cell ovarian tumors were evaluated by 
immunohistochemistry for the distribution of B7-H4 expression, and staining 
intensity was measured by automated image analysis. Univariate analyses were 
used to test for statistically significant relationships.
RESULTS: B7-H4 cytoplasmic and membranous expression was detected in all primary 
serous (n = 32), endometrioid (n = 12), and clear cell carcinomas (n = 15), and 
in all metastatic serous (n = 23) and endometrioid (n = 7) ovarian carcinomas. 
By contrast, focal B7-H4 expression was detected in only 1/11 mucinous 
carcinomas. The proportion of positive cells and median staining intensity was 
greater in serous carcinomas than in serous cystadenomas or serous tumors of low 
malignant potential, and the differences were statistically significant (P < 
0.0001 and P = 0.034, respectively). The median staining intensity was also 
significantly greater in endometrioid carcinomas than in endometriosis (P = 
0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: The consistent overexpression of B7-H4 in serous, endometrioid and 
clear cell ovarian carcinomas and the relative absence of expression in most 
normal somatic tissues indicates that B7-H4 should be further investigated as a 
potential diagnostic marker or therapeutic target for ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2005.08.060
PMID: 16256178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Cancer Res. 2006 Feb 1;66(3):1570-5. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-3550.

B7-h4 is a novel membrane-bound protein and a candidate serum and tissue 
biomarker for ovarian cancer.

Simon I(1), Zhuo S, Corral L, Diamandis EP, Sarno MJ, Wolfert RL, Kim NW.

Author information:
(1)diaDexus Inc., 343 Oyster Point Boulevard, South San Francisco, CA 94080, 
USA. isimon@diadexus.com

Using cDNA database mining strategies and real-time quantitative reverse 
transcription-PCR, we identified B7-H4 as a novel gene that is overexpressed in 
ovarian and breast cancer tissues when compared with normal tissues. The gene 
encodes a protein of 282 amino acids with a signal sequence, an immunoglobulin 
domain, and a COOH-terminal hydrophobic transmembrane domain. 
Immunohistochemistry experiments show plasma membrane staining in serous ovarian 
and breast cancer, confirming the tissue specificity and cell surface 
localization. We have developed a sensitive dual monoclonal antibody sandwich 
ELISA to analyze the level of B7-H4 protein in >2,500 serum samples, ascites 
fluids, and tissue lysates. High levels of B7-H4 protein were detected in 
ovarian cancer tissue lysates when compared with normal tissues. B7-H4 was 
present at low levels in all sera but showed an elevated level in serum samples 
from ovarian cancer patients when compared with healthy controls or women with 
benign gynecologic diseases. The median B7-H4 concentration in endometrioid and 
serous histotypes was higher than in mucinous histotypes, consistent with 
results of immunohistochemical staining. The multivariate logistic regression 
analysis of B7-H4 and CA125 measured in the same sample set resulted in an area 
under the curve (AUC) of 0.86 for all stages and 0.86 for stage I/II patients, 
which was significantly higher than the AUC for either marker alone. In 
early-stage patients, the sensitivity at 97% specificity increased from 52% for 
CA125 alone to 65% when used in combination with B7-H4. We conclude that B7-H4 
is a promising new biomarker for ovarian carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-3550
PMID: 16452214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. J Exp Med. 2006 Apr 17;203(4):871-81. doi: 10.1084/jem.20050930. Epub 2006
Apr  10.

B7-H4 expression identifies a novel suppressive macrophage population in human 
ovarian carcinoma.

Kryczek I(1), Zou L, Rodriguez P, Zhu G, Wei S, Mottram P, Brumlik M, Cheng P, 
Curiel T, Myers L, Lackner A, Alvarez X, Ochoa A, Chen L, Zou W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

Comment in
    J Exp Med. 2006 Apr 17;203(4):817-20.

Tumor-associated macrophages are a prominent component of ovarian cancer stroma 
and contribute to tumor progression. B7-H4 is a recently identified B7 family 
molecule. We show that primary ovarian tumor cells express intracellular B7-H4, 
whereas a fraction of tumor macrophages expresses surface B7-H4. B7-H4+ tumor 
macrophages, but not primary ovarian tumor cells, suppress tumor-associated 
antigen-specific T cell immunity. Blocking B7-H4-, but not arginase-, inducible 
nitric oxide synthase or B7-H1 restored the T cell stimulating capacity of the 
macrophages and contributes to tumor regression in vivo. Interleukin (IL)-6 and 
IL-10 are found in high concentrations in the tumor microenvironment. These 
cytokines stimulate macrophage B7-H4 expression. In contrast, 
granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor and IL-4, which are limited in 
the tumor microenvironment, inhibit B7-H4 expression. Ectopic expression of 
B7-H4 makes normal macrophages suppressive. Thus, B7-H4+ tumor macrophages 
constitute a novel suppressor cell population in ovarian cancer. B7-H4 
expression represents a critical checkpoint in determining host responses to 
dysfunctional cytokines in ovarian cancer. Blocking B7-H4 or depleting B7-H4+ 
tumor macrophages may represent novel strategies to enhance T cell tumor 
immunity in cancer.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.20050930
PMCID: PMC2118300
PMID: 16606666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2006 Jun;27(6):741-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1745-7254.2006.00338.x.

Recombinant human B7-H4 expressed in Escherichia coli inhibits T lymphocyte 
proliferation and IL-2 secretion in vitro.

Mao YX(1), Chen YJ, Ge Y, Ma HB, Yu JF, Wu HY, Hu YM, Wang Q, Shi Q, Zhang XG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Soochow University, Suzhou 215007, China.

AIM: To explore the biofunctions of human B7-H4 generated from prokaryotic 
system.
METHODS: The gene of human B7-H4 extracellular region (IgV-like and IgC-like 
domains) was obtained by PCR from human cDNA FLJ22418 and then inserted into the 
prokaryotic expression vector pGEX-5X-3 expressing glutathione s-transferase 
(GST) fusion protein. After being identified by restriction enzyme digestion and 
sequencing, the recombinant vector was transferred into host strain E coli 
BL21-RIL(DE3). A 47 kDa fusion protein (GST/hB7-H4) was induced by 
isopropyl-beta-D-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) and purified by standard methods 
reported in the prokaryotic system. The inhibitory effect of GST/hB7-H4 on 
proliferation of T cells was observed in vitro by CD3mAb activated T-cell 
culturing system and [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation assay. The concentrations of 
interleukin-2 and iterferon-g in the supernatants of T cells were determined by 
ELISA.
RESULTS: We successfully constructed the method for high-level expression and 
purification of the hB7-H4 extracellular domain as GST fusion protein from E 
coli. The GST/hB7-H4 fusion protein produced in bacteria had obvious biological 
activity to inhibit T-lymphocyte proliferation and IL-2 secretion.
CONCLUSION: The prokaryote expression system could be used to generate hB7-H4 
protein with natural spatial conformations and biological functions, which 
provided an efficient and economical way for the preparation of this target 
protein.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-7254.2006.00338.x
PMID: 16723094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Gynecol Oncol. 2006 Nov;103(2):405-16. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2006.03.056. Epub
 2006 May 24.

Differential gene expression profiles between tumor biopsies and short-term 
primary cultures of ovarian serous carcinomas: identification of novel molecular 
biomarkers for early diagnosis and therapy.

Bignotti E(1), Tassi RA, Calza S, Ravaggi A, Romani C, Rossi E, Falchetti M, 
Odicino FE, Pecorelli S, Santin AD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of Brescia, Brescia, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: To identify novel molecular biomarkers useful for the early diagnosis 
and therapy of ovarian cancer by gene expression profiling. To compare the 
genetic fingerprints of flash-frozen ovarian serous carcinomas to those of 
matched highly purified primary tumor cell cultures.
METHODS: Gene expression profiles of 19 flash-frozen ovarian serous papillary 
carcinoma (OSPC) were analyzed and compared to 15 controls (highly purified 
human ovarian surface epithelium short-term cultures, HOSE) using 
oligonucleotide microarrays complementary to >14,500 human genes. In addition, 
gene expression profiling of 5 highly purified primary OSPC cultured in vitro 
for less than 2 weeks was compared to flash-frozen ovarian carcinoma biopsies 
obtained from matched samples. Quantitative RT-PCR and IHC staining techniques 
were used to validate microarray data at RNA and protein levels for some of the 
differentially expressed genes.
RESULTS: Unsupervised analysis of gene expression data readily distinguished 
normal tissue from flash-frozen OSPC and identified 901 and 557 genes that 
exhibited >3-fold up-regulation or down-regulation, respectively, in OSPC when 
compared to HOSE. Mammaglobin 2, an ovarian secreted protein, was identified as 
the top differentially expressed gene in OSPC (19 out 19 OSPC versus 0 out of 15 
HOSE) with over 827-fold up-regulation relative to HOSE. The claudin and 
kallikrein family of proteins including the clostridium perfringens enterotoxin 
receptors claudin 3 and 4, kallikreins 6, 7, 8, 10, 11 and the immunomodulatory 
molecule B7-H4 were found among the most highly overexpressed genes in OSPC when 
compared to HOSE. Genetic fingerprints of flash-frozen OSPC were found to have 
high correlation with those of purified primary OSPC short-term in vitro 
cultures with only 31 out of 8,637 genes (0.35%) differentially expressed 
between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Short-term in vitro culture of primary ovarian carcinomas may 
greatly increase the purity of ovarian tumor RNA available for gene expression 
profiling without causing major alteration in OSPC fingerprints. Mammaglobin 2, 
kallikreins 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, claudin 3 and 4 and B7-H4 gene expression products 
represent candidate biomarkers endowed with great potential for early screening 
and therapy of OSPC patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2006.03.056
PMID: 16725184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Lung Cancer. 2006 Aug;53(2):143-51. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2006.05.012. Epub 
2006 Jun 19.

B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression in non-small-cell lung cancer.

Sun Y(1), Wang Y, Zhao J, Gu M, Giscombe R, Lefvert AK, Wang X.

Author information:
(1)Immunological Research Unit, Department of Medicine, Center for Molecular 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm S-17176, Sweden.

Inhibitory regulatory functions of B7-H3 and B7-H4 regarding T-cell activation 
have been reported recently. Little is known about the significance of human 
B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and we 
conducted the present study to address this issue in cell lines and tumor tissue 
from 70 patients. B7-H3 is over-expressed by all six NSCLC cell lines on both 
mRNA and protein level. B7-H4 is only transcripted by one cell line in which an 
alternatively spliced form was discovered. In tumor tissues, expression of B7-H3 
and B7-H4 was found both on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm. Thirty-seven 
percent of the specimens expressed B7-H3 and 43% B7-H4. The number of T 
infiltrating lymphoid cells (TILs) in the tumor tissues that expressed B7-H3 or 
B7-H4 was much lower than those who did not. There was a significant positive 
relation between the expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4, and high B7-H3 or B7-H4 
expression was significantly more common in cases with lymph node metastasis. 
These observations suggest the contribution of B7-H3 and B7-H4 to immune 
dysfunction and tumor progression in NSCLC patients. B7-H3 and B7-H4 may be an 
important target for diagnosis and/or therapy of NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2006.05.012
PMID: 16782226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Immunol. 2006 Jul 1;177(1):40-4. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.177.1.40.

Cutting edge: induction of B7-H4 on APCs through IL-10: novel suppressive mode 
for regulatory T cells.

Kryczek I(1), Wei S, Zou L, Zhu G, Mottram P, Xu H, Chen L, Zou W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, 1500 East Medical Center 
Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

Comment in
    J Immunol. 2007 Apr 15;178(8):4705-6; author reply 4706.

Multiple modes of suppressive mechanisms including IL-10 are thought to be 
implicated in CD4+CD25+ regulatory T (Treg) cell-mediated suppression. However, 
the cellular source, role, and molecular mechanism of IL-10 in Treg cell biology 
remain controversial. We now studied the interaction between Treg cells and 
APCs. We demonstrate that Treg cells, but not conventional T cells, trigger high 
levels of IL-10 production by APCs, stimulate APC B7-H4 expression, and render 
APCs immunosuppressive. Initial blockade of B7-H4 reduces the suppressive 
activity mediated by Treg cell-conditioned APCs. Further, APC-derived, rather 
than Treg cell-derived, IL-10 is responsible for APC B7-H4 induction. Therefore, 
Treg cells convey suppressive activity to APCs by stimulating B7-H4 expression 
through IL-10. Altogether, our data provide a novel cellular and molecular 
mechanism for Treg cell-mediated immunosuppression at the level of APCs, and 
suggest a plausible mechanism for the suppressive effect of IL-10 in Treg 
cell-mediated suppression.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.177.1.40
PMID: 16785496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Jul 5;103(27):10391-10396. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0600937103. Epub 2006 Jun 23.

B7-H4 expression in renal cell carcinoma and tumor vasculature: associations 
with cancer progression and survival.

Krambeck AE(1), Thompson RH(1), Dong H(2), Lohse CM(3), Park ES(1), Kuntz SM(2), 
Leibovich BC(1), Blute ML(1), Cheville JC(4), Kwon ED(5)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departments of *Urology.
(2)Immunology.
(3)Health Sciences Research, and.
(4)Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Medical School, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN 55905.
(5)Departments of *Urology, kwon.eugene@mayo.edu.

B7-H4 is a recently described B7 family coregulatory ligand that has been 
implicated as an inhibitor of T cell-mediated immunity. Although expression of 
B7-H4 is typically limited to lymphoid cells, aberrant B7-H4 expression has also 
been reported in several human malignancies. To date, associations of B7-H4 with 
clinical outcomes for cancer patients are lacking. Therefore, we examined B7-H4 
expression in fresh-frozen tumor specimens from 259 renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
patients treated with nephrectomy between 2000 and 2003 and performed 
correlative outcome analyses. We report that 153 (59.1%) RCC tumor specimens 
exhibited B7-H4 staining and that tumor cell B7-H4 expression was associated 
with adverse clinical and pathologic features, including constitutional 
symptoms, tumor necrosis, and advanced tumor size, stage, and grade. Patients 
with tumors expressing B7-H4 were also three times more likely to die from RCC 
compared with patients lacking B7-H4 (risk ratio = 3.05; 95% confidence interval 
= 1.51-6.14; P = 0.002). Additionally, 211 (81.5%) specimens exhibited tumor 
vasculature endothelial B7-H4 expression, whereas only 6.5% of normal adjacent 
renal tissue vessels exhibited endothelial B7-H4 staining. Based on these 
findings, we conclude that B7-H4 has the potential to be a useful prognostic 
marker for patients with RCC. In addition, B7-H4 represents a target for 
attacking tumor cells as well as tumor neovasculature to facilitate 
immunotherapeutic treatment of RCC tumors. Last, we demonstrate that patients 
with RCC tumors expressing both B7-H4 and B7-H1 are at an even greater risk of 
death from RCC.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0600937103
PMCID: PMC1502468
PMID: 16798883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The authors and 
institution have a potential financial conflict of interest in that they have 
applied for patents pertaining to B7-H4 as a biomarker for cancer therapy.


19. Mol Cell Biol. 2006 Sep;26(17):6403-11. doi: 10.1128/MCB.00755-06.

Generation and characterization of B7-H4/B7S1/B7x-deficient mice.

Suh WK(1), Wang S, Duncan GS, Miyazaki Y, Cates E, Walker T, Gajewska BU, 
Deenick E, Dawicki W, Okada H, Wakeham A, Itie A, Watts TH, Ohashi PS, Jordana 
M, Yoshida H, Mak TW.

Author information:
(1)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, 620 University Ave., 
Suite 706, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. woong-kyung.suh@ircm.qc.ca

Members of the B7 family of cosignaling molecules regulate T-cell proliferation 
and effector functions by engaging cognate receptors on T cells. In vitro and in 
vivo blockade experiments indicated that B7-H4 (also known as B7S1 or B7x) 
inhibits proliferation, cytokine production, and cytotoxicity of T cells. B7-H4 
binds to an unknown receptor(s) that is expressed on activated T cells. However, 
whether B7-H4 plays nonredundant immune regulatory roles in vivo has not been 
tested. We generated B7-H4-deficient mice to investigate the roles of B7-H4 
during various immune reactions. Consistent with its inhibitory function in 
vitro, B7-H4-deficient mice mounted mildly augmented T-helper 1 (Th1) responses 
and displayed slightly lowered parasite burdens upon Leishmania major infection 
compared to the wild-type mice. However, the lack of B7-H4 did not affect 
hypersensitive inflammatory responses in the airway or skin that are induced by 
either Th1 or Th2 cells. Likewise, B7-H4-deficient mice developed normal 
cytotoxic T-lymphocyte reactions against viral infection. Thus, B7-H4 plays a 
negative regulatory role in vivo but the impact of B7-H4 deficiency is minimal. 
These results suggest that B7-H4 is one of multiple negative cosignaling 
molecules that collectively provide a fine-tuning mechanism for T-cell-mediated 
immune responses.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.00755-06
PMCID: PMC1592821
PMID: 16914726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Cell Transplant. 2006;15(5):399-410.

Suppression of human T-cell responses to beta-cells by activation of B7-H4 
pathway.

Ou D(1), Wang X, Metzger DL, Ao Z, Pozzilli P, James RF, Chen L, Warnock GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 
1L8, Canada. daweiou@interchange.ubc.ca

B7-H4, a recently described member of the B7 family of cosignal molecules, is 
thought to be involved in the regulation of cellular and humoral immune 
responses through receptors on activated T and B cells. Human islet cells 
express positive B7-H4 mRNA in RT-PCR assays, but not B7-H4 protein on cell 
surface in flow cytometric analyses. To investigate the regulatory effects of 
activation of the B7-H4 pathway on the function of activated T cells of patients 
with type 1 diabetes (T1D), we have used our in vitro human experimental system, 
including human beta-cell antigen-specific T-cell clones and human beta-cell 
lines CM and HP62, as well as primary islet cells. B7-H4.Ig protein was purified 
from the culture supernatant of 293T cells transfected by a B7-H4.Ig plasmid 
(pMIgV, containing a human B7-H4 cDNA and a mouse IgG2a Fc cDNA). Our 
preliminary studies showed that immobilized fusion protein human B7-H4.Ig 
(coated with 5 microg/ml for 2 h at 37 degrees C), but not control Ig, clearly 
inhibited the proliferation of activated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells of patients 
induced by anti-CD3 antibody in CFSE assays. B7-H4.Ig also arrested cell cycle 
progression of T cells in G0/G1 phase and induced T-cell apoptosis as measured 
by BrdU-7-AAD flow cytometric analysis. To determine the cytoprotective effects 
of B7-H4, we developed transfectants of human beta-cell lines CM and HP62 and 
islet cells transfected with the B7-H4.Ig plasmid, using empty vector 
transfectants as controls. The results demonstrate that cell-associated B7-H4.Ig 
expressed on human beta-cells clearly inhibits the cytotoxicity of the T-cell 
clones to targeted human beta-cells in 51Cr release cytotoxicity assays. 
Activation of the B7-H4 pathway may represent a novel immunotherapeutic approach 
to inhibit T-cell responses for the prevention of beta-cell destruction in T1D.

PMID: 16970282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Kidney Int. 2006 Dec;70(12):2092-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.ki.5001867. Epub 2006 Oct
 18.

Expression of the novel co-stimulatory molecule B7-H4 by renal tubular 
epithelial cells.

Chen Y(1), Yang C, Xie Z, Zou L, Ruan Z, Zhang X, Tang Y, Fei L, Jia Z, Wu Y.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunoregulation, Institute of Immunology, PLA, The Third 
Military Medical University, Chongqing, PR China.

Crosstalk between T cells and renal tubular epithelial cells (TECs) in the 
pathogenesis of tubular lesions, the most important sign of progressive renal 
diseases, has not been clarified. Previous work has shown that TECs harbor 
co-stimulatory signals that promote T-cell activation, which induces tubular 
lesions. Nevertheless, the expression and functional role of B7-H4, a recently 
identified co-stimulatory ligand of the B7 superfamily, in pathologic human 
kidneys is unclear. We investigated the expression of B7-H4 on cryostat renal 
biopsies from patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy (n=20), 
immunoglobulin A nephropathy (n=19), lupus nephritis (n=16), and acute renal 
allograft rejection (n=15) using immunohistochemistry. In addition, we also 
analyzed TEC-associated B7-H4 in the regulation of T-cell activation. 
Immunohistological staining revealed that B7-H4 antigen is restricted to tubular 
epithelium and that the protein is prominent in sections with severe tubular 
lesions, although no correlation was observed between tubular B7-H4 expression 
and levels of serum creatinine, serum urea nitrogen concentration, and 24-h 
proteinuria in each type of nephropathy. In vitro, mixed lymphocyte reactions 
revealed that TEC-related B7-H4 promotes cytokine (interleukin-2 and 
interferon-gamma) production and proliferation of co-cultured T cells. 
Interestingly, the secretion of interleukin-2 by C10 T cell hybridomas also 
increased when C10 cells were co-cultured with the B7-H4-transgenic murine TEC 
line, 3M-1-secreting tubular epithelial cells (MCT) in the presence of the 
antigen hen egg lysozyme. Our results clearly show that TEC-associated B7-H4 
induces T-cell activation and we propose that B7-H4 is a potential activator 
that promotes tubular lesion.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ki.5001867
PMID: 17051145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Med Sci (Paris). 2006 Dec;22(12):1069-74. doi: 10.1051/medsci/200622121069.

[Lymphocyte coreceptors].

[Article in French]

Olive D(1).

Author information:
(1)Inserm UMR 599, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Université de la Méditerranée, 232, 
boulevard Sainte-Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France. olive@marseille.inserm.fr

The activation of the immune system is tightly regulated by positive and 
negative receptors that allow the fine tuning of the immune cells. This 
regulation relies on receptors that were initially described in T lymphocytes, 
but have now been identified on cells from both innate and acquired immunity. 
The co-stimulatory receptors can allow cell activation or amplify it, regulate 
cell suvival and determine their effector functions. The co-inhibitory receptors 
can either prevent, decrease of inhibit the activation and differentiation 
process. The co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory molecules belong mainly to the 
so-called Ig superfamily and historically were called << CD28 and B7 family >>. 
The members of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) family devoid of 
intra-cytoplasmic death domain but binding TNF receptor associated factors 
(TRAF) are also important but are up to now mainly co-stimulatory. The 
prototypical co-stimulatory molecules belonging to CD28 family are CD28 and 
ICOS, whereas the co-inhibitory molecules identified so far are CTLA-4, PD-1 and 
BTLA. Their receptors belong in most instances to the B7 family. For instance, 
B7.1/CD80 and B7.2/CD86 interact both with CD28 and CTLA-4 ; PDL1 and PDL2 bind 
to PD-1. The exception being so far BTLA which interacts with the TNFR family 
member HVEM (Herpes virus entry mediator). Three other B7 family members B7-H3, 
B7-H4 and BT3.1 are orphan receptors until now. The basis of co-inhibition rely 
on distinct mechanisms, one that has been postulated being the ability of the 
intracytoplasmic domain of PD-1 and BTLA to bind to the protein tyrosine 
phosphatases SHP-1 and SHP-2. The pathways used by the co-stimulatory receptors 
are also not completely understood and rely for CD28 both on signal similar to 
the one elicited by TcR and consequently increasing the overall signal and other 
more specific, elicited by the activation of PI3-OH kinase, vav1 and 
rearrangement of cytoskeleton. Recently, reverse signaling has been described 
for B7 family members which further increases the spectrum of functions elicited 
by these families. Co-stimulation and co-inhibition are among the most promising 
molecules and pathways to be targeted by mAbs, recombinant proteins and drugs in 
auto-immune diseases, transplantation and cancer.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/200622121069
PMID: 17156728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Eur J Immunol. 2007 Jan;37(1):167-76. doi: 10.1002/eji.200636285.

Terminal complement complex C5b-9-treated human monocyte-derived dendritic cells 
undergo maturation and induce Th1 polarization.

Chen Y(1), Yang C, Jin N, Xie Z, Tang Y, Fei L, Jia Z, Wu Y.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunoregulation, Institute of Immunology, PLA, The Third 
Military Medical University, Chongqing, P R China.

Sublytic C5b-9 has been described as a pro-inflammatory mediator that triggers 
cell activation rather than inducing cell death. Dendritic cells (DC) play a 
critical role in controlling antigen-specific immune responses. Although DC 
maturation induced by various stimuli has been well characterized, the role of 
C5b-9 in DC function has not been described. In this report, we use in vitro 
assembled functional C5b-9 based on purified distal complement protein to show 
that DC maturation is promoted by sublytic C5b-9. This was demonstrated by 
up-regulation of CD83, HLA-antigens and costimulatory molecules, including CD80, 
D86, B7-H1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and BTLA. In addition, secretion of cytokines such as 
interleukin (IL)-12 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha was increased while the 
capacity for antigen uptake (FITC-Dextran and Lucifer Yellow) was reduced in 
C5b-9-treated DC. Mixed lymphocyte reactions indicated that C5b-9-activated DC 
acted as stimulators that significantly promoted CD4+ T cell activation and 
elicited production of cytokines, including interferon-gamma and IL-2. 
Interestingly, C5b-9-treated DC also orient CD4+ CD45RA+ naïve T cells toward 
Th1 polarization. Our results are the first to report that DC are potential 
immunoregulatory targets of C5b-9, suggesting that C5b-9 bridges innate and 
acquired immunity by inducing DC maturation.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.200636285
PMID: 17171756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Immunol. 2007 Apr 15;178(8):4705-6; author reply 4706. doi: 
10.4049/jimmunol.178.8.4705-a.

Comment on "Cutting edge: induction of B7-H4 on APCs through IL-10: novel 
suppressive mode for regulatory T cells".

Mirza N, Gabrilovich D.

Comment on
    J Immunol. 2006 Jul 1;177(1):40-4.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.178.8.4705-a
PMID: 17404244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. J Immunother. 2007 Apr;30(3):251-60. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e31802e085a.

The new B7s: playing a pivotal role in tumor immunity.

Flies DB(1), Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Immunology Graduate Program and the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA. 
lchen42@jhmi.edu

B7-H1, B7-DC, B7-H2, B7-H3, and B7-H4, all new additions to the B7 family, here 
termed "the new B7s," are emerging as important tools in directing immune 
function; each with unique, yet often overlapping functions. Clearly, each B7 
molecule has developed its own indispensable niche in the immune system. The 
expression of both stimulatory and inhibitory B7 molecules seems to play an 
essential role in regulating the immune response to transformed cells through a 
variety of mechanisms. As specific niches of B7 family members continue to be 
dissected, their diagnostic and therapeutic potential becomes ever more 
apparent. In this review, we will discuss the role of the new B7s in activation 
and inhibition of antitumor immune responses, their prospects in diagnostics, 
and also potential and developing immunotherapy protocols.

DOI: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e31802e085a
PMID: 17414316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Gynecol Oncol. 2007 Jul;106(1):112-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2007.03.007. Epub 
2007 May 8.

Evaluation of the novel serum markers B7-H4, Spondin 2, and DcR3 for diagnosis 
and early detection of ovarian cancer.

Simon I(1), Liu Y, Krall KL, Urban N, Wolfert RL, Kim NW, McIntosh MW.

Author information:
(1)diaDexus, Inc., 343 Oyster Point Blvd., South San Francisco, CA 94080, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Early detection through regular screening could significantly reduce 
mortality from ovarian cancer. Advances in biomarkers and imaging continue to 
improve the sensitivity and specificity of cancer detection, but further 
improvements are still needed. In this study, we identified and evaluated three 
new serum biomarkers that may be used to improve detection of ovarian cancer.
METHODS: Through genomic analysis, we identified B7-H4, Spondin 2, and DcR3 as 
over-expressed genes in ovarian cancer tissues. Sensitive sandwich ELISAs were 
developed to analyze the level of these novel markers in 68 serum samples from 
patients with ovarian cancer (16 early stage, 52 late stage) and 108 control 
samples, and 20 healthy women from which two serum samples were collected 1 year 
apart. CA125 levels were measured in all samples.
RESULTS: Markers were evaluated for their ability to identify clinical disease. 
The three novel markers and CA125 were elevated in serum of ovarian cancer 
patients as compared to normal controls. B7-H4 showed the highest specificity, 
with the lowest frequency of elevation in all control groups. When all cases 
were compared against all controls, CA125, Spondin 2, B7-H4, and DcR3 showed 
areas under the ROC curve of 0.87, 0.78, 0.74, and 0.71, respectively. CA125 and 
B7-H4 showed the best diagnostic performance for early-stage, with AUCs of 0.90 
and 0.80, respectively.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates that B7-H4, Spondin 2, and DcR3 are 
promising new ovarian cancer markers that may improve early detection of cancer 
when used in combination with traditional diagnostic tests.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2007.03.007
PMID: 17490732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Gynecol Oncol. 2007 Aug;106(2):334-41. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2007.03.035. Epub
 2007 May 11.

B7-H4 is over-expressed in early-stage ovarian cancer and is independent of 
CA125 expression.

Simon I(1), Katsaros D, Rigault de la Longrais I, Massobrio M, Scorilas A, Kim 
NW, Sarno MJ, Wolfert RL, Diamandis EP.

Author information:
(1)diaDexus, Inc., 343 Oyster Point Blvd., South San Francisco, CA, USA. 
irissimon@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: This study characterizes the expression of the novel biomarker B7-H4 
in ovarian cancer tissue, normal ovaries, and benign ovarian tumors, and 
evaluates its relationship to CA125.
METHODS: Ovarian tissue lysates from 251 patients with ovarian carcinoma were 
assessed for the levels of B7-H4 and CA125 by ELISA assays. For comparison, 
ovarian tissues from patients with benign ovarian tumors (n=43) and patients 
with normal ovaries (n=32) were tested. The marker concentrations were 
correlated with CA125 expression, clinicopathological variables, and patient 
outcome.
RESULTS: Using a cut-off based on the 95th percentile of B7-H4 or CA125 
concentration in the control group, B7-H4 was over-expressed in 48% of patients 
with stage I cancer, 55% of patients with stage II cancer, and 67% of patients 
with late stage cancer. CA125 was elevated in 31% patients with early stage 
cancer. B7-H4 was elevated in tumors of 30 patients with early stage cancer that 
were negative for CA125. The combination of B7-H4 and CA125 identified 56 early 
stage cancer patients (65%) as positive. Correlation of marker expression to 
clinical outcome showed that high B7-H4 levels were correlated with poor 
prognosis. However, the effect was not significant when outcome was adjusted for 
other clinicopathological variables.
CONCLUSION: B7-H4 expression was low in normal ovaries and in benign tumors 
while half of early stage and two-thirds of late stage cancers over-expressed 
B7-H4. The data are consistent with previous observations and support further 
investigation of B7-H4 in the detection of early stage ovarian cancer either 
alone, or in combination with CA125.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2007.03.035
PMID: 17498784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Gynecol Oncol. 2007 Jul;106(1):119-27. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2007.03.039. Epub
 2007 May 16.

B7-H4 (DD-O110) is overexpressed in high risk uterine endometrioid 
adenocarcinomas and inversely correlated with tumor T-cell infiltration.

Miyatake T(1), Tringler B, Liu W, Liu SH, Papkoff J, Enomoto T, Torkko KC, Dehn 
DL, Swisher A, Shroyer KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences 
Center, 12800 E.19th Ave. Aurora, CO 80010, USA.

OBJECTIVES AND METHODS: B7-H4 (DD-O110), a member of the B7 family, negatively 
regulates T cell-mediated immune response. Previous studies have shown that 
B7-H4 is highly expressed in endometrioid ovarian cancers with relatively low 
levels of expression in normal ovary which was confirmed by Western blot. The 
present study was designed to localize B7-H4 expression by immunohistochemistry 
(IHC) in normal endometrium, endometrial hyperplasia and uterine endometrioid 
adenocarcinoma. The pattern of B7-H4 localization was compared with the IHC 
detection of CD3 and CD8-positive T lymphocytes and CD14 positive macrophages to 
investigate the role of B7-H4 in the regulation of tumor immune surveillance. 
B7-H4 expression was evaluated in apoptotic tumor cells.
RESULTS: The proportion and intensity of B7-H4 staining were increased in the 
progression from normal, hyperplastic and malignant endometrial glandular 
mucosa. B7-H4 showed a predominantly apical membranous staining (pattern 1) in 
normal and hyperplastic endometrial epithelium but showed intense 
circumferential membranous and cytoplasmic staining (pattern 2) in a majority of 
endometrioid carcinoma cases (p=0.018). The proportion of B7-H4 positive tumor 
cells and staining intensity was also higher in high risk tumors than in low 
risk tumors (p=0.001 and p=0.032, respectively). The proportion of B7-H4 
positive tumor cells was inversely related to the number of CD3-positive and 
CD8-positive tumor-associated lymphocytes (TALs). There was a positive 
correlation between B7-H4 pattern 2 staining and both CD3-positive and 
CD8-positive tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) (p=0.039 and p=0.031, 
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: B7-H4 is overexpressed in hyperplastic and malignant endometrial 
epithelium and is correlated with the number T cells associated with the tumor. 
These results suggest that B7-H4 overexpression may reflect a more aggressive 
biologic potential and may play a role in tumor immune surveillance mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2007.03.039
PMID: 17509674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Clin Cancer Res. 2007 Jul 1;13(13):4016-25. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-0016.

Immune signatures of murine and human cancers reveal unique mechanisms of tumor 
escape and new targets for cancer immunotherapy.

Sadun RE(1), Sachsman SM, Chen X, Christenson KW, Morris WZ, Hu P, Epstein AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA.

PURPOSE: Despite lymphocyte infiltration of tumors and the activation of 
tumor-draining lymph nodes, malignant tumors are able to "escape" from both 
innate and adaptive immune responses. For immunotherapy to be successful, it 
must reverse these escape mechanisms, which necessitates explicit and 
tumor-specific elucidation of tumor escape strategies.
RESEARCH DESIGN: To identify relevant escape mechanisms in murine tumors and in 
two corresponding human cancers, real-time reverse transcription-PCR was used to 
measure a panel of genes associated with T-cell activation and inhibition 
pathways.
RESULTS: Comparative analysis of the expression levels of these immunomodulatory 
genes showed astonishing similarities in expression patterns between murine and 
human breast cancers but profound variability in the expression of 
immunomodulatory genes in colorectal cancers. For human ductal adenocarcinoma of 
the breast, down-regulation of dendritic cell maturation marker CD83 and T-cell 
activation gene CD28 was observed as well as a notable increase in the 
expression of the immunoinhibitory gene B7-H4. By contrast, colorectal 
adenocarcinoma cases showed high variability in tumor escape mechanisms, 
indicating a need to produce immune signatures for individual patients to 
identify appropriate immunotherapeutic targets.
CONCLUSIONS: These results show that certain tumors, such as ductal carcinoma of 
the breast, show consistent immunologic abnormalities that can be used as 
targets for immunotherapy. These findings also show the importance and 
feasibility of determining the immune signatures of patients' tumors to select 
appropriate immunotherapeutic strategies. Ultimately, these results advocate for 
the determination of immune signatures as part of the customary repertoire of 
clinical diagnostics for cancer.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-0016
PMID: 17606736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Cancer Res. 2007 Sep 15;67(18):8900-5. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-1866.

Relationship between B7-H4, regulatory T cells, and patient outcome in human 
ovarian carcinoma.

Kryczek I(1), Wei S, Zhu G, Myers L, Mottram P, Cheng P, Chen L, Coukos G, Zou 
W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

B7-H4 is a recently identified B7 family member. We previously showed that 
ovarian tumor and associated macrophages expressed B7-H4; tumor B7-H4+ 
macrophages and CD4+CD25+FOXP3+ regulatory T cells (Treg cells) suppressed 
tumor-associated antigen-specific T-cell immunity. To determine the pathologic 
relationship between B7-H4, macrophages, and Treg cells in the tumor 
environment, in addition to Treg cell numbers, we quantified B7-H4 expression in 
the tumor and tumor-associated macrophages in 103 patients with ovarian 
carcinoma. We observed that the intensity of B7-H4 expression in macrophages was 
significantly correlated with Treg cell numbers in the tumor. Further, both Treg 
cells and macrophage B7-H4, but not tumor B7-H4, were negatively associated with 
patient outcome. Tumor Treg cells enabled macrophages to spontaneously produce 
interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-6. Tumor macrophages stimulated B7-H4 expression in 
an autocrine manner through IL-10 and IL-6. Our previous work showed that 
tumor-associated macrophages spontaneously produced chemokine CCL22 to mediate 
Treg cell trafficking into tumor, and Treg cells induced B7-H4 on 
antigen-presenting cells (APC) including macrophages. Altogether, our data 
support the concept that there is a mechanistic interaction between Treg cells 
and macrophage, and that Treg cells may convey the suppressive activity to APCs 
through B7-H4 induction in human ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-1866
PMID: 17875732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Clin Cancer Res. 2007 Dec 1;13(23):6984-92. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-1409.

A multiparametric panel for ovarian cancer diagnosis, prognosis, and response to 
chemotherapy.

Zheng Y(1), Katsaros D, Shan SJ, de la Longrais IR, Porpiglia M, Scorilas A, Kim 
NW, Wolfert RL, Simon I, Li L, Feng Z, Diamandis EP.

Author information:
(1)The Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, Washington, USA.

PURPOSE: Our goal was to examine a panel of 11 biochemical variables, measured 
in cytosolic extracts of ovarian tissues (normal, benign, and malignant) by 
quantitative ELISAs for their ability to diagnose, prognose, and predict 
response to chemotherapy of ovarian cancer patients.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Eleven proteins were measured (9 kallikreins, B7-H4, and 
CA125) in cytosolic extracts of 259 ovarian tumor tissues, 50 tissues from 
benign conditions, 35 normal tissues, and 44 tissues from nonovarian tumors that 
metastasized to the ovary. Odds ratios and hazard ratios and their 95% 
confidence interval were calculated. Time-dependent receiver operating 
characteristic curves for censored survival data were used to evaluate the 
performance of the biomarkers. Resampling was used to validate the performance.
RESULTS: Most biomarkers effectively separated cancer from noncancer groups. A 
composite marker provided an area under the curve of 0.97 (95% confidence 
interval, 0.95-0.99) for discriminating normal and cancer groups. Univariately, 
hK5 and hK6 were positively associated with progression. After adjusting for 
clinical variables in multivariate analysis, both hK10 and hK11 significantly 
predicted time to progression. Increasing levels of hK13 were associated with 
chemotherapy response, and the predictive power of hK13 to chemotherapy response 
was improved by a panel of five biomarkers.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence shows that a group of kallikreins and multiparametric 
combinations with other biomarkers and clinical variables can significantly 
assist with ovarian cancer classification, prognosis, and response to 
platinum-based chemotherapy. In particular, we developed a multiparametric 
strategy for predicting ovarian cancer response to chemotherapy, comprising 
several biomarkers and clinical features.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-1409
PMID: 18056174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2007 Dec;15(4):363-70. doi: 
10.1097/01.pai.0000213159.79557.71.

B7-h4 expression in a range of breast pathology: correlation with tumor T-cell 
infiltration.

Mugler KC(1), Singh M, Tringler B, Torkko KC, Liu W, Papkoff J, Shroyer KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences 
Center, 12800 East 19th Avenue, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.

B7-H4, a member of the B7 family, is involved in the regulation of 
antigen-specific immune responses. Its expression in a range of breast pathology 
and correlation to the number of CD3 and CD8 tumor infiltrating T-lymphocytes in 
invasive carcinomas were explored. The proportion of B7-H4 positive cells, 
staining pattern, and intensity were evaluated within diagnostic groups (normal 
and benign lesional, potentially premalignant and in situ carcinoma, and 
invasive carcinoma) on archival tissue blocks by immunohistochemistry. The 
proportion and intensity of B7-H4 expression was progressively increased across 
the major diagnostic groups. There was a significant association between a high 
proportion of B7-H4 positive cells in invasive ductal carcinomas and decreased 
number of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (P=0.002). The cellular distribution of 
B7-H4 appears altered in the spectrum of normal to malignant breast. Its 
overexpression may help cancers avoid immune detection.

DOI: 10.1097/01.pai.0000213159.79557.71
PMID: 18091377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Pancreas. 2008 Mar;36(2):200-6. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0b013e318150e4e0.

Detection of B7-H4 and p53 in pancreatic cancer: potential role as a cytological 
diagnostic adjunct.

Awadallah NS(1), Shroyer KR, Langer DA, Torkko KC, Chen YK, Bentz JS, Papkoff J, 
Liu W, Nash SR, Shah RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
Colorado at Denver and Health Science Center, Aurora, CO 80045, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This study compared p53 expression with B7-H4, a novel cancer 
biomarker, in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) resection specimens and in 
a pilot series of endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspirations 
(EUS-FNAs).
METHODS: B7-H4 and p53 expression were evaluated by immunoperoxidase methods in 
36 PDA and 15 EUS-FNA specimens and were scored for intensity and proportion of 
positive cells; cases were then assigned a final sum score.
RESULTS: B7-H4 was detected in 33 (92%) of 36 PDA sections, 8 (89%) of 9 
cytologically positive EUS-FNAs, and 1 (20%) of 5 cytologically negative 
EUS-FNAs. p53 was detected in 30 (83%) of 36 PDA sections, 4 (44%) of 9 
cytologically positive EUS-FNAs, and 1 (20%) of 5 cytologically negative cases. 
One EUS-FNA case that was cytologically atypical but not diagnostic of 
malignancy expressed B7-H4 and p53. Some benign tissue components (intercalated 
cells/ducts, main pancreatic ducts, and acinar cells) were also positive for 
B7-H4 and/or p53. Overall expression of B7-H4 in benign tissues, however, was 
relatively low compared with that seen in most carcinoma cases.
CONCLUSIONS: B7-H4 was expressed more often in PDA than was p53. Despite 
potentially problematic expression in benign/normal cells, the 2 markers target 
different cellular components and demonstrate potential diagnostic use for 
detection of PDA in resected and EUS-FNA specimens.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0b013e318150e4e0
PMID: 18376314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. World J Urol. 2008 Apr;26(2):115-25. doi: 10.1007/s00345-008-0259-y. Epub
2008  Apr 8.

Risk stratification and prognostication of renal cell carcinoma.

Ficarra V(1), Galfano A, Novara G, Iafrate M, Brunelli M, Secco S, Cavalleri S, 
Martignoni G, Artibani W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological and Surgical Sciences, Urology Clinic, University 
of Padua, Monoblocco Ospedaliero - IV Floor, Via Giustiniani 2, 35128 Padua, 
Italy. vincenzo.ficarra@unipd.it

OBJECTIVES: To review the most recent data on prognostic factors and describe 
the characteristics and prognostic accuracy of the most important prognostic 
systems available to predict the risk of recurrence, progression, and mortality 
in patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
METHODS: The study was based on a non-systematic review of literature.
RESULTS: Clinical (performance status, and mode of presentation), anatomical 
(size and extension of the primary tumor, lymph node involvement, and distant 
metastasis), and histological factors (histological subtypes, nuclear grade, and 
tumor necrosis) are the most largely evaluated prognostic factors in RCC. 
Valuable prognostic accuracy has been shown for several laboratory parameters 
(erythrocyte sedimentation rate, platelet count, serum calcium, hemoglobin, and 
lactate dehydrogenase levels) and a few genetical and molecular markers (CAIX, 
B7-H1, and B7-H4). A few integrating systems have been proposed and validated, 
integrating both clinical and pathological (UCLA Integrating Staging Systems, 
Kattan nomogram, and Sorbellini nomogram) or only pathological variables (SSIGN 
score).
CONCLUSIONS: Several large and methodologically consistent studies have been 
published. The chance to integrate the data derived from each prognostic factor 
into prognostic algorithms and scores has allowed improving significantly the 
stratification of the prognosis of patients with RCC. The currently available 
prognostic systems can be further improved through the inclusion of molecular 
and genetic variables. Integrating prognostic systems should be used to design 
randomized controlled trials (RCTs), which will evaluate the efficacy of the 
new-targeted therapies in either neoadjuvant, adjuvant, or salvage treatments of 
patients with RCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-008-0259-y
PMID: 18392834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Cancer Lett. 2008 Aug 8;266(2):227-37. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2008.02.067.
Epub  2008 Apr 15.

B7-H4 reverse signaling induces the apoptosis of EBV-transformed B cells through 
Fas ligand up-regulation.

Song H(1), Park G, Kim YS, Hur I, Kim H, Ryu JW, Lee HK, Cho DH, Choi IH, Lee 
WJ, Hur DY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Tumor Immunology, Inje University College of 
Medicine, 633-165 Kaekum-2-dong, Jin-gu, Busan 614-735, Republic of Korea.

B7-H4 has an inhibitory effect on immune responses via the down-regulation of T 
cell-mediated immunity, but how the engagement of B7-H4 molecules by counter 
molecules affects the signaling mechanism of the B7-H4-expressing cells is 
poorly defined. In this study, we found that B7-H4 expression was enhanced on B 
cells infected with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and that triggering of these 
molecules induced apoptosis of EBV-transformed B cells. Engagement of B7-H4 
initially increased intracellular level of ROS, which then induced the 
expression of FasL. Engagement of B7-H4 subsequently provoked Fas-mediated and 
caspase-dependent apoptosis in association with cytochrome c and AIF, and EndoG 
was released from the mitochondria on EBV-transformed B cells. These results 
suggest that B7-H4 may be a potential therapeutic target for EBV involved 
malignancy diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2008.02.067
PMID: 18417276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Neurooncol. 2008 Sep;89(2):121-9. doi: 10.1007/s11060-008-9601-x. Epub 2008
 May 14.

B7-H4 is preferentially expressed in non-dividing brain tumor cells and in a 
subset of brain tumor stem-like cells.

Yao Y(1), Wang X, Jin K, Zhu J, Wang Y, Xiong S, Mao Y, Zhou L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Wulumuqi Road 
12#, Shanghai, 200040, China.

B7-H4, a newly discovered member of B7 family that negatively regulates T 
cell-mediated immunity, may facilitate tumor progression by undermining host 
immunity. Recent studies show that brain tumor stem-like cells (TSCs) contribute 
to tumorigenesis. However, the relationship between B7-H4 and the clinical 
behavior of brain TSCs remains unclear. In this study, we found that B7-H4 was 
expressed in cultured tumor cells from human gliomas (n = 5) and 
medulloblastomas (n = 3). Double immunostaining indicated that B7-H4 was 
primarily restricted to non-dividing (Ki67(-)) cultured tumor cells. Tumor cells 
cultured under medium conditions favoring the growth of neural stem cells were 
able to form primary and secondary spheres, along with expression of neural 
stem/progenitor cell markers. These cells differentiated into different neural 
lineages when cultured in differentiation medium, indicating that these cells 
have TSCs characteristics. Double immunostaining showed that TSCs consisted of 
proliferative (Ki67(+)) and quiescent (Ki67(-)) cells. We also found that B7-H4 
was expressed in a small population of CD133(+) cells sorted by flow cytometry. 
Interestingly, both CD133(+) and CD133(-) cells were tumorigenic in SCID mice in 
vivo. However, CD133(+) cells-initiated glioblastomas showed a higher 
proliferation index, compared to CD133(-) cells-induced glioblastomas in vivo. 
Secondary glioma cells derived from CD133(+) or CD133(-) cell xenografts 
expressed B7-H4 as well. Our data suggest B7-H4 is preferentially expressed in 
non-dividing brain tumor cells and in a subpopulation of brain TSCs, and 
CD133(-) tumor cells also have the capacity to initiate brain formation in vivo.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-008-9601-x
PMID: 18478183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Cancer. 2008 Aug 1;113(3):450-60. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23566.

Predicting disease progression after nephrectomy for localized renal cell 
carcinoma: the utility of prognostic models and molecular biomarkers.

Crispen PL(1), Boorjian SA, Lohse CM, Leibovich BC, Kwon ED.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55902, USA.

Disease progression after nephrectomy for pathologically localized renal cell 
carcinoma (RCC) is associated with a significant mortality rate, given the 
limited efficacy of available treatment regimens for metastatic disease. As 
such, several adjuvant trials have been designed to treat patients at 
particularly high risk for postsurgical RCC progression. Several different 
prognostic models designed to identify patients at high risk of disease 
progression are available. Although these available predictive models provide a 
reasonable assessment of patients' risks of disease progression, the accuracy of 
these models may further be improved via the incorporation of molecular 
prognostic biomarkers. Although numerous candidate molecules have been 
described, few have been specifically assessed for the association with disease 
progression after nephrectomy. IMP-3, CXCR3, p53, Survivin, cIAP1, B7-H1, and 
B7-H4 have all been associated with disease progression after nephrectomy. The 
incorporation of 1 or several of these biomarkers may increase the accuracy of 
currently available prognostic models and thereby facilitate the appropriate use 
of adjuvant therapies aimed at preventing future disease progression. As such, 
the authors review the current prognostic tools for predicting disease 
progression for localized RCC, and detail studies to date that have evaluated 
various biomarkers in this setting.

(c) 2008 American Cancer Society

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23566
PMCID: PMC2785036
PMID: 18523999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Clin Cancer Res. 2008 Aug 15;14(16):5150-7. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-0536.  Epub 2008 Aug 11.

Tumor cell and tumor vasculature expression of B7-H3 predict survival in clear 
cell renal cell carcinoma.

Crispen PL(1), Sheinin Y, Roth TJ, Lohse CM, Kuntz SM, Frigola X, Thompson RH, 
Boorjian SA, Dong H, Leibovich BC, Blute ML, Kwon ED.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

PURPOSE: Although the prognostic value of B7-H1 and B7-H4 expression by tumor 
cells in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) has been established, the role 
of B7-H3 is unknown. As such, we evaluated the association of B7-H3 expression 
with clinicopathologic outcomes in patients treated for ccRCC.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Nephrectomy specimens from 743 consecutive patients treated 
for ccRCC at our institution from 1990 to 1999 were evaluated for B7-H3 
expression by immunohistochemical staining. Associations of B7-H3 expression 
with clinical and pathologic features were evaluated using chi2 and Fisher's 
exact tests. Associations of B7-H3 expression with death from RCC were evaluated 
using Cox proportional hazards regression models.
RESULTS: B7-H3 expression by tumor cells or tumor vasculature was noted in 17% 
and 95% of specimens, respectively. The presence of either tumor cell or diffuse 
tumor vasculature expression of B7-H3 was present in 46% of specimens and was 
associated with multiple adverse clinical and pathologic features. After 
multivariable adjustment, the presence of either tumor cell or diffuse tumor 
vasculature B7-H3 expression was significantly associated with an increased risk 
of death from RCC (risk ratio, 1.38; 95% confidence interval, 1.03-1.84; P = 
0.029).
CONCLUSIONS: Both tumor cell and tumor vasculature B7-H3 expression convey 
important information to predict ccRCC outcomes. Collectively, our past and 
present studies pertaining to B7-H ligand expression indicate that ccRCC may use 
redundant mechanisms to compromise host antitumoral immunity. Future studies 
will focus on the effect of combined B7-H ligand expression in RCC.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-0536
PMCID: PMC2789387
PMID: 18694993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest Y. 
Sheinin,T.J. Roth, C.M. Lohse, and E.D. Kwon have filed a patent on B7-H3 
prognostic marker.


39. Br J Cancer. 2008 Oct 7;99(7):1103-13. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604630. Epub 2008
 Sep 2.

Prediction of ovarian cancer prognosis and response to chemotherapy by a 
serum-based multiparametric biomarker panel.

Oikonomopoulou K(1), Li L, Zheng Y, Simon I, Wolfert RL, Valik D, Nekulova M, 
Simickova M, Frgala T, Diamandis EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON M5G1L5, Canada.

Currently, there are no effective biomarkers for ovarian cancer prognosis or 
prediction of therapeutic response. The objective of this study was to examine a 
panel of 10 serum biochemical parameters for their ability to predict response 
to chemotherapy, progression and survival of ovarian cancer patients. Sera from 
ovarian cancer patients were collected prior and during chemotherapy and were 
analysed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for CA125, kallikreins 5, 6, 7, 8, 
10 and 11, B7-H4, regenerating protein IV and Spondin-2. The odds ratio and 
hazard ratio and their 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were calculated. 
Time-dependent receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curves were utilised to 
evaluate the prognostic performance of the biomarkers. The levels of several 
markers at baseline (c(0)), or after the first chemotherapy cycle (rc(1)), 
predicted chemotherapy response and overall or progression-free survival in 
univariate analysis. A multiparametric model (c(0) of CA125, KLK5, KLK7 and 
rc(1) of CA125) provided predictive accuracy with area under the ROC curve (AUC) 
of 0.82 (0.62 after correction for overfitting). Another marker combination 
(c(0) of KLK7, KLK10, B7-H4, Spondin-2) was useful in predicting short-term 
(1-year) survival with an AUC of 0.89 (0.74 after correction for overfitting). 
All markers examined, except KLK7 and regenerating protein IV, were powerful 
predictors of time to progression (TTP) among chemotherapy responders. 
Individual and panels of biomarkers from the kallikrein family (and other 
families) can predict response to chemotherapy, overall survival, short-term 
(1-year) survival, progression-free survival and TTP of ovarian cancer patients 
treated with chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604630
PMCID: PMC2567083
PMID: 18766180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Immunol. 2008 Oct 1;181(7):4770-9. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.181.7.4770.

Impact of mammalian target of rapamycin inhibition on lymphoid homing and 
tolerogenic function of nanoparticle-labeled dendritic cells following 
allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation.

Reichardt W(1), Dürr C, von Elverfeldt D, Jüttner E, Gerlach UV, Yamada M, Smith 
B, Negrin RS, Zeiser R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Medical Physics, Freiburg University 
Medical Center, Albert-Ludwigs-University, Freiburg, Germany.

Dendritic cells (DC) play a major role in the pathogenesis of graft-vs-host 
disease (GvHD). Directed modification of surface molecules on DC that provide 
instructive signals for T cells may create a tolerogenic DC phenotype that 
affects GvHD severity. To investigate the impact of the mammalian target of 
rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor rapamycin (RAPA) on in vivo migratory capacities, 
tolerogenic function, and B7 superfamily surface expression on DC following 
allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (aHCT), we generated a platform 
for magnetic resonance imaging and bioluminescence imaging based cell 
trafficking studies. Luciferase transgenic DC were labeled with 
superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles bound to a murine IgG Ab that allowed 
for Fc-gammaR-mediated endocytosis. Locally injected luc(+) DC could be tracked 
within their anatomical context by bioluminescence imaging and magnetic 
resonance imaging after aHCT, based on stable intracellular localization of 
superparamagnetic iron oxide-IgG complexes. RAPA preconditioned DC (DC-R) 
displayed reduced expression of MHC class II, B7-1 (CD80), and B7-2 (CD86) but 
not B7-H4 whose ligation of T cells has a profound inhibitory effect on their 
proliferation and cytokine secretion. DC-R of recipient genotype reduced GvHD 
severity that is compatible with their tolerogenic phenotype. CCR5, CCR7, and 
CD62L expression was not affected by mTOR inhibition, which allowed for DC-R in 
vivo trafficking to secondary lymphoid compartments where immunregulation is 
required. This study is the first to delineate the impact of RAPA on DC 
migration and tolerogenic function after aHCT. Modification of the DC phenotype 
by mTOR inhibition may have therapeutic potential in an attempt to reduce GvHD 
following aHCT.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.181.7.4770
PMCID: PMC2881823
PMID: 18802080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures The authors have no financial 
conflict of interest.


41. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2008 Sep;37(5):499-505. doi: 
10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2008.05.014.

[Construction and identification of recombinant adenoviral vector encoding B7-H4 
gene].

[Article in Chinese]

Yan PY(1), Yao HP, Qian Y, Gu LJ, Tao L, Zhang LH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunology, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310058, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct the recombinant adenovirus containing B7-H4 gene with 
AdEasy XL system and to identify its biological activities.
METHODS: The full-length mouse B7-H4 gene was amplified by RT-PCR from C57 mouse 
lung and put into T vector, then verified by sequencing. Digested with Xhol I 
and EcoR V the B7-H4 gene was inserted into pshuttle-CMW(PSC). Pme I linearized 
shuttle plasmid was transformed into E.coli BJ5183-AD-1 to obtain the 
recombinant adenoviral plasmid pAd-mB7-H4 by efficient homologous recombination. 
Then the recombinant adenovirus-mB7-H4/Ad was obtained by packaging Pac I 
linearized in D-293 cells. The mRNA and protein expression of B7-H4 in mB7-H4/Ad 
infected AD-293 cells were detected by RT-PCR and Western blot, respectively. 
mB7-H4/Ad was used to infect L929 cells, the bioactivity of expressed B7-H4 in 
stimulation of T lymphocytes proliferation and cytokine production were tested.
RESULTS: The full-length of mB7-H4 was cloned from mouse lung tissue cDNA and 
verified by sequencing. The recombinant plasmid pAd-m B7-H4 was successfully 
generated by homologous recombination, and the primary mB7-H4/Ad was obtained by 
packaging pAd-B7-H4 in AD-293 cells. Compared with the negative control, L929 
cells infected with mB7-H4/Ad effectively inhibited the proliferation of T 
lymphocytes and cytokines production.
CONCLUSION: The bioactive recombinant adenovirus mB7-H4/Ad has been successfully 
constructed.

DOI: 10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2008.05.014
PMID: 18925719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Blood. 2009 Jan 15;113(3):622-5. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-03-139964. Epub 2008
 Nov 20.

Impaired negative regulation of homeostatically proliferating T cells.

Shvets A(1), Chakrabarti R, Gonzalez-Quintial R, Baccala R, Theofilopoulos AN, 
Prud'homme GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, St Michael's Hospital and University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON.

Acute lymphopenia-induced homeostatic proliferation (HP) of T cells promotes 
antitumor immunity, but the mechanism is unclear. We hypothesized that this is 
due to a lack of inhibitory signals that allows activation of T cells with low 
affinity for self-antigens. Tumors resist immunity in part by expressing 
inhibitory molecules such as PD-1 ligand 1 (PD-L1), B7-H4, and TGF-beta. In 
irradiated mice undergoing HP, we found that T cells displayed a severe deficit 
in the activation-induced expression of inhibitory molecules PD-1 and CTLA-4, 
and TGF-beta1-induced expression of Foxp3. HP T cells were also less suppressed 
by B7-H4/Ig and, unlike control T cells, failed to produce IL-10 in response to 
this molecule. This deficiency in regulation was reversed as normal T-cell 
numbers were restored. We conclude that T cells are weakly regulated by 
inhibitory molecules during the acute phase of HP, which could explain their 
increased effectiveness in cancer immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-03-139964
PMCID: PMC2948436
PMID: 19023118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Mol Immunol. 2009 Jan;46(3):457-72. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2008.10.007. Epub
2008  Dec 9.

The B7 family of immunoregulatory receptors: a comparative and evolutionary 
perspective.

Hansen JD(1), Du Pasquier L, Lefranc MP, Lopez V, Benmansour A, Boudinot P.

Author information:
(1)US Geological Survey-Western Fisheries Research Center, Seattle, WA 98115, 
USA. jhansen@usgs.gov

In mammals, T cell activation requires specific recognition of the peptide-MHC 
complex by the TcR and co-stimulatory signals. Important co-stimulatory 
receptors expressed by T cells are the molecules of the CD28 family, that 
regulate T cell activation, proliferation and tolerance. These receptors 
recognize B7s and B7-homologous (B7H) molecules that are typically expressed by 
the antigen presenting cells. In teleost fish, typical T cell responses have 
been described and the TcR, MHC and CD28/CTLA4 genes have been characterized. In 
contrast, the members of the B7 gene family have only been described in mammals 
and birds and have yet to be addressed in lower vertebrates. To learn more about 
the evolution of components guiding T cell activation in vertebrates, we 
performed a systematic genomic survey for the B7 co-stimulatory and 
co-inhibitory IgSF receptors in lower vertebrates with an emphasis on teleost 
fish. Our search identified fish sequences that are orthologous to B7, 
B7-H1/B7-DC, B7-H3 and B7-H4 as defined by sequence identity, phylogeny and 
combinations of short or long-range syntenic relationships. However, we were 
unable to identify clear orthologs for B7-H2 (CD275, ICOS ligand) in bony fish, 
which correlates with our prior inability to find ICOS in fish. Interestingly, 
our results indicate that teleost fish possess a single B7.1/B7.2 (CD80/86) 
molecule that likely interacts with CD28/CTLA4 as the ligand-binding regions 
seem to be conserved in both partners. Overall, our analyses implies that gene 
duplication (and loss) have shaped a molecular repertoire of B7-like molecules 
that was recruited for the refinement of T cell activation during the evolution 
of the vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molimm.2008.10.007
PMID: 19081138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Blood. 2009 Feb 19;113(8):1759-67. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-01-133223. Epub
2008  Dec 24.

B7-H4-deficient mice display augmented neutrophil-mediated innate immunity.

Zhu G(1), Augustine MM, Azuma T, Luo L, Yao S, Anand S, Rietz AC, Huang J, Xu H, 
Flies AS, Flies SJ, Tamada K, Colonna M, van Deursen JM, Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21231, USA.

B7-H4 is an immunoglobulin superfamily molecule and shown to be inhibitory for 
T-cell responses. To explore physiologic roles of B7-H4, we created 
B7-H4-deficient (KO) mice by genetic targeting. B7-H4KO mice are healthy and 
their T- and B-cell responses to polyclonal antigens are in normal range. 
However, B7-H4KO mice are more resistant to infection by Listeria monocytogenes 
than their littermates. Within 3 days after infection, bacterial colonies in 
livers and spleens are significantly lower than the controls, suggesting a role 
of B7-H4 in enhancing innate immunity. Further studies demonstrate that 
neutrophils increase in peripheral organs of B7-H4KO mice more so than their 
littermates but their bactericidal functions remain unchanged. Augmented innate 
resistance is completely dependent on neutrophils, even in the absence of 
adaptive immunity. In vitro B7-H4 inhibits the growth of bone marrow-derived 
neutrophil progenitors, suggesting an inhibitory function of B7-H4 in neutrophil 
expansion. Our results identify B7-H4 as a negative regulator of the neutrophil 
response to infection and provide a new target for manipulation of innate 
immunity.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-01-133223
PMCID: PMC2647680
PMID: 19109567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2009 Feb;61(2):136-46. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0897.2008.00674.x.

Changes in the subpopulation of CD25+ CD4+ and FOXP3+ regulatory T cells in 
decidua with respect to the progression of labor at term and the lack of 
analogical changes in the subpopulation of suppressive B7-H4 macrophages--a 
preliminary report.

Galazka K(1), Wicherek L, Pitynski K, Kijowski J, Zajac K, Bednarek W, 
Dutsch-Wicherek M, Rytlewski K, Kalinka J, Basta A, Majka M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Oncology of the Jagiellonian University, Krakow, 
Poland.

PROBLEM: The initiation of labor is accompanied by alterations in the level of 
maternal immune tolerance toward fetal antigens. It is a complex molecular 
response leading to a brief activation of the maternal immune system with an 
accompanying capacity to restrict this same activation. The aim of our study was 
to evaluate the subpopulation of regulatory T cells (Tregs) and B7-H4 
macrophages in the decidua basalis during cesarean sections performed on 
patients in various stages of labor.
METHOD OF STUDY: The decidual tissue samples evaluated in our study were 
obtained from 23 pregnant women who underwent cesarean sections at term. 
Moreover, the patients were divided into three subgroups according to the 
progression of labor at the time of the cesarean. The presence of Treg cells and 
B7-H4 positive macrophages were analysed by fluorescence-activated cell sorter.
RESULTS: The percentages of FOXP3+ cells in the subpopulation of CD25+ CD4+ T 
lymphocytes found in the deciduas of patients decreased with the successive 
stages of labor, while the percentages of B7-H4 positive cells in the macrophage 
subpopulation remained almost constant.
CONCLUSION: These changes in the Treg cell subpopulation in the decidua would 
seem to be related to a brief activation of the maternal immune system as labor 
begins and lack of analogical changes in the subpopulation of decidual 
suppressive B7-H4+ macrophages that enable the restriction of this same 
activation as labor progresses.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.2008.00674.x
PMID: 19143677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2009 Apr;61(4):303-12. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0897.2009.00696.x.

The characterization of the subpopulation of suppressive B7H4(+) macrophages and 
the subpopulation of CD25(+) CD4(+) and FOXP3(+) regulatory T-cells in decidua 
during the secretory cycle phase, Arias Stella reaction, and spontaneous 
abortion - a preliminary report.

Wicherek L(1), Basta P, Pitynski K, Marianowski P, Kijowski J, Wiatr J, Majka M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Oncology, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, 
Poland. mowicher@cyf-kr.edu.pl

PROBLEM: The presence of immunosuppressive cells within the endometrium and 
decidua is crucial for establishing maternal immune tolerance against fetal 
antigens. We decided to evaluate the subpopulations of Treg cells and B7H4 
macrophages in eutopic endometrium typified by Arias Stella reaction during the 
development of Fallopian tube pregnancy as well as in decidua at the time of 
spontaneous abortion (SA), and to compare these findings to those observed in 
the endometrium during the secretory cycle phase of healthy women.
METHOD OF STUDY: The decidual tissue samples evaluated in our study were 
obtained from 26 women who underwent curettage as a result of the following 
circumstances: five of the women because of a laparoscopic procedure 
necessitated by Fallopian tube pregnancy, and 11 of them because of SA. The 
control group consisted of 10 patients on whom curettage was preformed as an 
additional procedure during laparoscopic myomectomy. The presence of regulatory 
T-cells and B7H4-positive macrophages in the samples was analysed by 
fluorescence-activated cell sorter (FAC-Scan).
RESULTS: Both the percentages of FOXP3(+) cells in the subpopulation of CD25(+) 
CD4(+) T lymphocytes and the percentage of B7H4-positive cells in the macrophage 
subpopulation found in the deciduae of patients suffering SA were higher than 
those found in eutopic endometrium with Arias Stella reaction. No such 
differences in the percentages of these cells were observed when the tissue 
samples from patients with SA were compared with those from the control group. 
The percentage of B7H4-positive macrophages, however, was found to be 
significantly lower in endometrium with Arias Stella reaction in comparison to 
that observed in secretory endometrium.
CONCLUSION: The alterations in both the Treg cell and suppressive B7H4(+) 
macrophage subpopulations would seem to be related to the suppression of 
maternal immune cells in the endometrium at the beginning of decidualization.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.2009.00696.x
PMID: 19260861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Transplantation. 2009 Feb 27;87(4):482-90. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318195e5fa.

Local expression of B7-H4 by recombinant adenovirus transduction in mouse islets 
prolongs allograft survival.

Wang X(1), Hao J, Metzger DL, Mui A, Ao Z, Verchere CB, Chen L, Ou D, Warnock 
GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Allogeneic pancreatic islet transplantation has the potential to 
cure type 1 diabetes. One of the barriers to islet transplantation is the 
alloreactive T-cell response between donors and recipients. Costimulatory 
molecules, which play a major role in the regulation of the immune response to 
antigens during graft rejection, may be used to inhibit allograft destruction. 
B7-H4 is one such member in the costimulatory family, which has established 
negative regulatory function of T-cell responses.
METHODS: To determine whether local expression of B7-H4 protein can protect beta 
cells from damage in islet allotransplantation, we have constructed a 
recombinant adenovirus expressing a B7-H4 complementary deoxyribonucleic acid 
(Ad-B7-H4). To study the in vivo effects of B7-H4 expression on islet graft 
survival, adenovirus-transduced islets from donor Balb/c mice were transplanted 
into streptozotocin-diabetic C57BL/6 mice (n=12).
RESULTS: Expression of B7-H4 in islets by Ad-B7-H4 transduction at an optimized 
condition did not inhibit glucose-stimulated insulin secretion of the treated 
islets. The recipient mice transplanted with Ad-B7-H4-transduced islets 
established euglycemia for a longer time (mean 56.5 days), compared with control 
mice transplanted with Ad-LacZ-transduced islets (mean 14.5 days, [n=12, 
P<0.001]). Splenocytes isolated from the recipients of Ad-B7-H4-transduced 
islets showed hyporesponsiveness to alloantigenic stimulation, compared with 
control recipients. CD45 and insulin staining of the graft transplanted with 
Ad-B7-H4-transduced islets indicated the preservation of beta cells and decrease 
of infiltrating immune cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Local expression of B7-H4 prolongs islet allograft survival in 
vivo, suggesting translational potential for beta-cell replacement with reduced 
immune injury.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318195e5fa
PMID: 19307783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Transpl Immunol. 2009 Jul;21(3):143-9. doi: 10.1016/j.trim.2009.03.007. Epub 
2009 Apr 8.

B7-H4 transfection prolongs beta-cell graft survival.

Yuan CL(1), Xu JF, Tong J, Yang H, He FR, Gong Q, Xiong P, Duan L, Fang M, Tan 
Z, Xu Y, Chen YF, Zheng F, Gong FL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

B7-H4, a recently discovered member of B7 family, can negatively regulate T cell 
responses. However, it is not clear whether B7-H4 negatively function in cell 
transplantation. In this study we investigated the immunosuppressive effect of 
B7-H4 on beta-cell transplantation. An insulinoma cell line, NIT-1, transfected 
with B7-H4 (B7-H4-NIT) was established, and transplanted to diabetic C57BL/6 
mice by intraperitoneal injection. Proliferation assay of splenocytes in vitro 
showed that B7-H4-NIT suppressed alloreactive T cell activation. The proportion 
of IFN-gamma-producing cells in recipient spleen was significantly reduced and 
the number of Treg cells was upregulated in B7-H4-NIT group compared to the 
control, EGFP-NIT. The expression of mRNA coding IFN-gamma was lower but that of 
IL-4 was higher in B7-H4-NIT transplanted recipients than in the control 
animals. The results of ELISA also revealed the same trends. Diabetic mice 
reached normalglycemic quickly and gained weight after transplantation of 
B7-H4-NIT. More importantly, the survival time for recipients transplanted with 
B7-H4-NIT cells was significantly longer than that with EGFP-NIT cells. These 
results indicate that B7-H4 transfection prolongs beta-cell graft survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trim.2009.03.007
PMID: 19361556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2009 Mar;38(2):117-24. doi: 
10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2009.02.001.

[Expression and identification of recombinant mouse gene B7-H4].

[Article in Chinese]

Qian Y(1), Yao HP, Cheng LF, Shen L, Gu LJ, Tao L, Zhang LH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunology, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a eukaryotic expression vector encoding the gene of 
extracellular region of mouse B7-H4, to express it in yeast cell line and to 
determine its biological activity.
METHODS: The extracellular region of the mouse B7-H4 gene was amplified with Xho 
I and EcoR I by PCR from a mouse B7-H4 chimeric plasmid. Digested with Xho I and 
EcoR I, the mB7-H4 gene was inserted into the yeast expression plasmid Ppic9. 
The DNA sequence was confirmed by double digestion and the Ppic9-mB7-H4 plasmid 
was transfected into the yeast cells. The expression of mB7-H4 was confirmed by 
PCR, Western Blot and ELISA analysis, and its biological function was 
determined.
RESULT: Ppic9-mB7-H4 transfectants expressed mB7-H4 in yeast cells, and mB7-H4 
effectively inhibited the proliferation of T lymphocytes with a fractional 
inhibition rate of 28.3 % and inhibited IL-2, IL-4, IL-10 and IFN-gamma 
production with fractional inhibition rates of 68.8%, 78.8%, 67.6% and 77.7%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The eukaryotic expression plasmid mouse B7-H4 has been successfully 
constructed and the expressed products of B7-H4 possess biological activity.

DOI: 10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2009.02.001
PMID: 19363817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Immunol Rev. 2009 May;229(1):145-51. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-065X.2009.00768.x.

Fine tuning the immune response through B7-H3 and B7-H4.

Yi KH(1), Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21231, USA.

B7-H3 and B7-H4 belong to a new class of immune regulatory molecules, which 
primarily execute their functions in peripheral tissues to fine tune immune 
responses in target organs. In normal circumstances, while the mRNA for both 
molecules is broadly distributed, tight control at the post-transcriptional 
level is imposed. Under a pathogenic environment, such as inflammation and 
cancer, the control is often aberrant. Upon engaging their receptors, these 
molecules regulate the immune response in positive or negative ways depending on 
the expression and type of cells bearing the receptors. Thus, manipulation of 
the expression of these molecules and/or their receptors may represent a 
realistic opportunity to fine tune immune responses and to design new 
immunotherapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-065X.2009.00768.x
PMCID: PMC2696224
PMID: 19426220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Immunol. 2009 Jun 1;182(11):6799-806. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.0803371.

Teleost B7 expressed on monocytes regulates T cell responses.

Sugamata R(1), Suetake H, Kikuchi K, Suzuki Y.

Author information:
(1)Fisheries Laboratory, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, 
University of Tokyo, Hamamatsu, Japan.

In mammals, professional APCs induce adaptive immunity via the activation of T 
cells. During this process, B7 family molecules present upon APCs are known to 
play crucial roles in optimal T cell stimulation. In contrast, the confirmation 
of APCs in a nonmammalian vertebrate has yet to be achieved. To obtain further 
insights into the evolutionary origin of APCs, we have identified three members 
of the B7 family in the teleost Takifugu rubripes (fugu): B7-H1/DC, B7-H3, and 
B7-H4. The three fugu B7s were expressed on the surface of blood monocytes. The 
B7(+) monocytes, which are composed of at least two distinct populations, 
expressed the MHC class II component gene. The fugu B7 molecules bound to 
activated T cells, indicating that putative B7 receptors were expressed upon T 
cells. Fugu B7-H1/DC inhibited T cell proliferation concomitant with increasing 
levels of both IL-10 and IFN-gamma expression, whereas both B7-H3 and B7-H4 
promoted T cell growth following IL-2 induction and the suppression of IL-10. 
These observations indicate that fugu B7s regulate T cell responses via 
receptors upon T cells. We suggest that fish B7(+) monocytes are APCs and that a 
costimulatory system has already developed in fish via the evolutionary process.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.0803371
PMID: 19454675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. J Immunol. 2009 Sep 15;183(6):3634-41. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.0900974. Epub
2009  Aug 26.

TLR3-stimulated dendritic cells up-regulate B7-H1 expression and influence the 
magnitude of CD8 T cell responses to tumor vaccination.

Pulko V(1), Liu X, Krco CJ, Harris KJ, Frigola X, Kwon ED, Dong H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, College of Medicine, Mayo Clinic,Rochester, MN 
55905, USA.

Agonists of TLR have been explored as vaccine adjuvants for tumor immunotherapy. 
However, their immunological consequences are not fully understood. Although TLR 
signaling increases the functional potential of dendritic cells (DCs) for 
priming T cells, coinduction of potentially negative immunoregulatory capacities 
may impair effector T cell generation. We examined the expression and function 
of B7 family costimulatory molecules on DCs after activation with the TLR3 
agonist, polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid. We demonstrated that 
polyinosinic:polycytidylic acid consistently up-regulated both B7-2 and B7-H1 
molecules on resident, migratory DCs from spleen and lymph nodes. Depletion or 
blockade of B7-H1 on activated DCs increased the magnitude of effector CD8 T 
cell expansion. DC-based or protein-based tumor vaccines, in combination with 
B7-H1 blockade, induced strong effector CD8 T cell responses, resulting in 
protective immunity against newly established tumors. Our studies suggest that 
TLR3 signaling has the potential to up-regulate both positive and negative 
coregulatory molecules on APCs. Selective blockade of negative regulatory 
molecules in combination with TLR3 agonist may be an effective strategy for 
increasing the efficacy of tumor vaccines.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.0900974
PMCID: PMC2789393
PMID: 19710456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Both E. D. Kwon and the Mayo Clinic 
have received royalties greater than the federal threshold for significant 
financial interest from the licensing to Medarex of technology related to B7-H1. 
Additionally, E. D. Kwon and the Mayo Clinic have contractual rights to receive 
future royalties from the licensing of this technology. In addition, some of the 
authors (E. D. Kwon, X. Frigola, and H. Dong) have filed patents for the 
potential use of B7-H1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 as prognostic markers for assessment of 
cancer.


53. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2009 Nov 13;389(2):349-53. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2009.08.144. Epub 2009 Aug 31.

Possible involvement of soluble B7-H4 in T cell-mediated inflammatory immune 
responses.

Kamimura Y(1), Kobori H, Piao J, Hashiguchi M, Matsumoto K, Hirose S, Azuma M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Immunology, Graduate School, Tokyo Medical and Dental 
University, 1-5-45 Yushima, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8549, Japan.

B7-H4, a newly identified B7 family molecule, is reported to regulate T cell 
activation. However, the expression and function of B7-H4 remain controversial. 
Here, we demonstrated that B7-H4 expression in immune cells was undetectable at 
both the transcription and cell-surface protein levels. B7-H4 transfectants 
augmented anti-CD3 mAb-induced re-directed cytotoxicity and this was inhibited 
by anti-B7-H4 mAb. In a hapten-induced contact hypersensitivity model, treatment 
with anti-B7-H4 mAb at sensitization, but not at challenge, efficiently 
suppressed the ear swelling and CD8(+) T cell activation assessed by CD25 
expression and IFN-gamma production. We found that cells expressing B7-H4 
secreted soluble B7-H4 and the serum B7-H4 level increased with disease 
progression in lupus-prone and collagen-induced arthritis autoimmune mice and 
after the antigen challenge in allergic inflammatory diseases. Our results 
suggest a different action of B7-H4 in T cell-mediated inflammatory responses 
and the possible involvement of soluble B7-H4 in inflammatory immune responses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2009.08.144
PMID: 19723502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Immunol Res. 2010 Mar;46(1-3):206-15. doi: 10.1007/s12026-009-8129-2.

PDEF and PDEF-induced proteins as candidate tumor antigens for T cell and 
antibody-mediated immunotherapy of breast cancer.

Sood AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY 14263, 
USA. Ashwani.sood@roswellpark.org

Novel breast tumor antigens are needed to develop T cell and antibody-based 
vaccine immunotherapy approach against breast cancer. To this purpose, we have 
previously shown that PDEF is frequently over expressed in human breast tumors 
and exhibits highly restricted expression in normal human tissues that is 
primarily limited to normal prostate. Moreover, PDEF expression correlates with 
poor overall survival for breast cancer patients. Additionally, Pse 
(prostate-specific Ets, mouse homologue of PDEF) is immunogenic in female mice 
and PDEF sequence contains HLA-A2 binding potentially immunogenic peptides. 
Together, these observations support PDEF as a novel candidate breast tumor 
antigen. Further, we have identified certain PDEF-induced proteins including 
CEACAM6, B7-H4, and S100A7 as additional candidate breast tumor antigens.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-009-8129-2
PMID: 19763888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Stem Cells Dev. 2010 Jan;19(1):27-38. doi: 10.1089/scd.2009.0076.

The negative co-signaling molecule b7-h4 is expressed by human bone 
marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells and mediates its T-cell modulatory 
activity.

Xue Q(1), Luan XY, Gu YZ, Wu HY, Zhang GB, Yu GH, Zhu HT, Wang M, Dong W, Geng 
YJ, Zhang XG.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Immunology Key Lab of Jiangsu Province, First Affiliated Hospital of 
Suzhou University, People's Republic of China.

Though experimental evidence shows that human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal 
stem cells (hBMSCs) are able to suppress T-cell activation and proliferation, 
the precise mechanisms are still not completely understood. Here, we 
investigated the role of the negative costimulatory molecule B7-H4 in the 
immunosuppressive effect of hBMSCs on T-cell activation. We showed that B7-H4 
expresses abundantly on hBMSCs assessed by reverse transcription, 
immunofluorescence staining, and flow cytometric analysis. Further studies 
demonstrated that B7-H4 expressed on hBMSCs inhibits T-cell activation and 
proliferation via induction of cell cycle arrest and inhibition of NF-kappaB 
nuclear translocation. Blocking B7-H4 would decrease the secretion of 
transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) in the supernatant of activated T 
cells co-cultured with hBMSCs. Addition of neutralizing antibodies against B7-H4 
significantly attenuated the inhibitory effects of hBMSCs on T-cells. Thus, our 
study established the novel role of B7-H4 molecule in the suppressive effect of 
hBMSCs on T-cell activation and proliferation. Taken together, these results 
highlight the complex role of hBMSCs in regulating the immune response, 
asserting the possibility of their therapeutic application in transplantation, 
the treatment of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), and autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2009.0076
PMID: 19788399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. PLoS Med. 2009 Oct;6(10):e1000166. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000166. Epub
2009  Oct 20.

Potential role of decoy B7-H4 in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis: a 
mouse model informed by clinical data.

Azuma T(1), Zhu G, Xu H, Rietz AC, Drake CG, Matteson EL, Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

BACKGROUND: A pathogenic hallmark of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is persistent 
inflammatory responses in target tissues and organs. Immune responses mediated 
by T cells and autoantibodies are known to play pivotal roles. A possible 
interpretation for this observation is a loss of negative regulation of 
autoimmune responses. Here we sought to investigate whether B7-H4, a cell 
surface inhibitory molecule of the B7-CD28 signaling pathway, may play a role in 
the pathogenesis of RA.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: In a cross-sectional study of a clinical convenience 
sample using monoclonal antibodies against human B7-H4 molecules, we detected 
high levels of the soluble form of B7-H4 (sH4) in the sera of 65% of patients 
with RA (n = 68) versus only 13% of healthy donors (n = 24). Elevated sH4 was 
associated with an increased disease severity score (DAS28) in a cross-sectional 
analysis. In a mouse model of RA, transgenic expression of sH4 or genetic 
deletion of B7-H4 accelerated the progression of collagen-induced arthritis, 
accompanied by enhanced T and B cell-mediated autoimmune responses as well as 
increased activity of neutrophils. Expression in vivo of an agonist, a 
B7-H4-immunoglobulin Fc fusion protein, profoundly suppressed disease 
progression in the mouse model.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings in mice indicate that sH4 acts as a decoy molecule to 
block the inhibitory functions of cell-surface B7-H4, leading to exacerbation of 
collagen-induced arthritis. If the preliminary correlation between sH4 levels 
and disease activity in patients with RA can be confirmed to reflect a similar 
mechanism, these findings suggest a novel target for treatment approaches. 
Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000166
PMCID: PMC2760136
PMID: 19841745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


57. Stem Cell Res. 2010 Jan;4(1):57-68. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2009.09.004. Epub 2009
 Sep 25.

Immune evasion by neocartilage-derived chondrocytes: Implications for biologic 
repair of joint articular cartilage.

Adkisson HD(1), Milliman C, Zhang X, Mauch K, Maziarz RT, Streeter PR.

Author information:
(1)ISTO Technologies, Inc., 1155 Olivette Executive Parkway, St. Louis, MO 
63132, USA. dadkisson@istotech.com

Degeneration of joint articular cartilage is a leading cause of disability 
worldwide, and is due in large part to the fact that adult articular cartilage 
is unable to undergo effective intrinsic repair. To overcome this barrier, we 
have developed a tissue engineering strategy which harnesses the superior 
anabolic activity of juvenile chondrocytes to produce a scaffold-independent, 
living neocartilage graft. Preclinical studies demonstrate that bioengineered 
neocartilage survives allogeneic and xenogeneic transplantation, suggesting the 
utility of universal donor-derived neocartilage for joint repair. However, the 
mechanism underlying neocartilage transplant tolerance remains poorly 
understood. We show here that neocartilage-derived chondrocytes are unable to 
stimulate allogeneic T cells in vitro, and they do not constitutively express 
cell surface molecules required for induction of T cell immune responses, 
including major histocompatibility complex (MHC) Class II antigens and 
costimulatory molecules B7-1 and B7-2. Additionally, chondrocytes suppress, in a 
contact-dependent manner, the proliferation of activated T cells, with 
suppression associated with chondrocyte expression of multiple negative 
regulators of immune responses, including B7 family members (B7-H1, B7-DC, 
B7-H2, B7-H3, and B7-H4), chondromodulin-I and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase. 
Thus, the survival of transplanted bioengineered neocartilage may depend on both 
passive and active mechanisms of immune evasion.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2009.09.004
PMID: 19880363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. BMC Cancer. 2009 Nov 11;9:394. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-9-394.

B7-H4 gene polymorphisms are associated with sporadic breast cancer in a Chinese 
Han population.

Zhang J(1), Zhang M, Jiang W, Wang L, Fu Z, Li D, Pang D, Li D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, Heilongjiang, PR 
China. zjsxzj.029@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: B7-H4, a co-inhibitory molecule of the B7 family, can restrain T 
cell proliferation, cytokine secretion and the development of cytotoxicity. 
B7-H4 is expressed in tumor tissues at a higher level than in normal tissues, 
and has a potential effect to protect tumors from anti-tumor immune responses. 
This case-control study was carried out to determine the potential influences of 
B7-H4 gene polymorphisms on the susceptibility and progression of breast cancer 
in Han women of Northeast China.
METHODS: We genotyped three B7-H4 variants (rs10754339, rs10801935 and 
rs3738414) and tagged all common haplotypes (frequency greater than or equal to 
1%) in a Chinese population consisting of 500 breast cancer cases and 504 
control individuals matched for age. Polymerase chain reaction-restriction 
fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) technique was used to determine the 
genotypes.
RESULTS: Our data indicated that, compared with the common genotype and allele 
of each SNP, the rs10754339 AG genotype and G allele showed a significantly 
increased risk of breast cancer (OR = 1.455, 95% CI 1.119-1.892; OR = 1.325, 95% 
CI 1.073-1.637, respectively). The rs10801935 CC genotype, the rs3738414 AA 
genotype and the rs3738414 A allele were associated with a significantly 
decreased risk of breast cancer (OR = 0.328, 95% CI 0.145-0.739; OR = 0.412, 95% 
CI 0.203-0.835; OR = 0.698, 95% CI 0.564-0.864, respectively). Additionally, the 
rs10754339 GG genotype was significantly associated with lymph node metastasis 
and PR status, and the G allele and the AG genotype were respectively associated 
with lymph node metastasis and ER status. In haplotype analysis, we observed 
that compared with the AAG haplotype, the AAA haplotype showed a significantly 
decreased risk of breast cancer (OR = 0.689, 95% CI 0.539-0.881), but the GAG 
haplotype was associated with a significantly increased risk of breast cancer 
(OR = 1.511, 95% CI 1.125-2.031). And the AAA and the GCG haplotypes also 
respectively have significant influences on tumor size and ER status.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that B7-H4 gene polymorphism may contribute to 
the sporadic breast cancer risk and prognosis in Chinese Han women.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-9-394
PMCID: PMC2780456
PMID: 19903360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Minerva Med. 2009 Oct;100(5):385-400.

Immunopathogenesis of ovarian cancer.

Torres MP(1), Ponnusamy MP, Lakshmanan I, Batra SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA.

Ovarian cancer, the most aggressive gynecologic cancer, is the foremost cause of 
death from gynecologic malignancies in the developed world. Over 90% of ovarian 
cancers arise from the surface epithelium, which are classified as epithelial 
ovarian cancer (EOC). EOCs can be categorized as serous, mucinous, endometrioid, 
clear cell, and transitional cell types. The molecular pathology of ovarian 
carcinomas is heterogeneous and involves various putative precursor lesions and 
multiple pathways of development. Furthermore, in another aspect, immune 
deficiencies that are present in the ovarian tumor environment enhance the 
progression of the tumor in the host. The presence of regulatory T cells, the 
inhibition of natural killer cytotoxic responses, the accumulation of myeloid 
suppressor cells in the tumor, deficiencies on interferon signaling, the 
secretion of cytokines that enhance tumor growth (i.e., IL-6, IL-10, CSF-1, 
TGF-b, TNF), and the expression of surface molecules (i.e., HLA-G, B7-H1, B7-H4, 
CD40, CD80) that have a role on immune suppression, are discussed in detail. The 
aim of this review is to provide insight of the evidence that supports the role 
of immunodeficiency in the progression of ovarian cancer and future directions 
for ovarian cancer therapies. It also discusses the genetic alterations in the 
subtypes of ovarian cancers.

PMID: 19910891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Zhonghua Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Oct;30(10):689-93.

[The effects of B7H4 on human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell inhibiting 
proliferation of PHA activated T cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Luan XY(1), Yu WZ, Cao QZ, Fu Q, Zhang HX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical College, Yantai 264003, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of B7H4 on human bone marrow mesenchymal 
stem cells (HBMSC) mediating immune suppression.
METHODS: The expression of the negative immunoregulatory factor B7H4 on HBMSC 
were analyzed by RT-PCR and flow cytometry (FCM), respectively. The blocking 
experiment was used to detect the effects of B7H4 on HBMSC mediating suppression 
on PHA induced T cell activation, proliferation and cell cycle. HBMSC inhibiting 
T cell proliferation was examined by transwell cell culture system.
RESULTS: B7H4 was highly expressed on HBMSC. Blocking the B7H4 expression by 
B7H4mAb significantly attenuated the inhibitory effects of HBMSC on T cell 
proliferation. Compared with that of the unblocking group, T cell stimulator 
index (SI) of the B7H4 blocked group was significantly increased (53 +/- 5 vs 15 
+/- 8, P < 0.01) and the inhibitory effects of HBMSC on T cell cycle were 
weakened significantly through down-regulating the cell number in G(0)/G(1) 
phase \[(85.6 +/- 9.9)% vs (95.8 +/- 9.9)%\] and up-regulating those in S 
phase\[(5.8 +/- 3.2)% vs (2.3 +/- 2.2)%, P < 0.05\]. The suppressive effects of 
HBMSC on T cell proliferation were significantly weakened after separating HBMSC 
from T cells by transwell cell culture system. Compared with the cell to cell 
contact group, T cell SI was significantly increased (27 +/- 17 vs 15 +/- 3, P < 
0.01).
CONCLUSION: HBMSC highly express B7H4, which plays an important role in the 
suppressive effects of HBMSC on T cell proliferation.

PMID: 19954668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2009 Dec;19(9):1481-6. doi:
10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181ad0fa2.

B7-H4 expression promotes tumorigenesis in ovarian cancer.

Cheng L(1), Jiang J, Gao R, Wei S, Nan F, Li S, Kong B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, P.R. China.

INTRODUCTION: It has been previously shown that B7-H4, one of the B7 family 
members that serve as negative regulators of T cell function, has altered 
expression levels in a variety of cancers, overexpression of B7-H4 promotes 
cellular transformation. However, there is still lack of adequate evidence to 
establish a direct connection between B7-H4 expression and malignant 
transformation.
METHODS: Herein, we constructed pE-green fluorescent protein-N1/B7-H4 mammalian 
expression vector and transfected into B7-H4-negative human ovarian cancer cell 
line SKOV3. Cellular proliferation, apoptosis, adhesion, motility, and invasion 
were examined in vitro. Cells injected subcutaneously into severe combined 
immunodeficient mouse were analyzed for the possible functions of B7-H4 in 
ovarian tumorigenesis in vivo.
RESULTS: Fluorescence microscopy studies confirmed that the B7-H4-green 
fluorescent protein localizes in the cytoplasm of SKOV3/B7-H4 cells, whereas 
green fluorescent protein is uniformly distributed throughout the cell. B7-H4 
promoted cellular proliferation rate and increased cell adhesion, migration, and 
invasion. In addition, SKOV3 cells expressing B7-H4 gained growth advantage in 
the xenograft model in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: These studies demonstrate that B7-H4 directly promotes malignant 
transformation of ovarian cancer cell line, and provides a potential therapeutic 
strategy for targeting B7-H4 to inhibit progression of human ovarian cancers.

DOI: 10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181ad0fa2
PMID: 19955922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Chin J Cancer. 2010 Jan;29(1):25-9.

[Expressions of osteopontin and B7-H4 in epithelial ovarian neoplasm and their 
significance].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang LL(1), Shao SL, Wu Y.

Author information:
(1)The Second Clinical Hospital of Shanxi Medical University,Taiyuan, Shanxi 
030001, People's Republic of China. lilyzh8310@163.com.cn

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Epithelial ovarian cancer involves a number of 
factors. Recent studies have shown that osteopontin (OPN) is related to the 
occurrence and development of a variety of tumors, but few studies are on 
ovarian cancer. B7-H4 is a newly identified tumor marker in ovarian cancer. This 
study explored the expression of OPN and B7-H4 and their clinical significance 
in epithelial ovarian tumors.
METHODS: The expression of OPN and B7-H4 in 15 cases of normal ovarian tissue, 
20 of benign ovarian tumor tissue, 20 of borderline ovarian tumor tissue, and 40 
of ovarian cancer tissue were detected by immunohistochemistry, and the 
relationship of OPN and B7-H4 expression to clinical and pathologic features of 
ovarian cancer was analyzed.
RESULTS: The expression of OPN and B7-H4 were significantly higher in ovarian 
cancer than in borderline and benign tumors (P<0.05). The positive rates of OPN 
and B7-H4 were significantly higher in poorly differentiated ovarian cancer than 
in medium and highly differentiated ovarian cancer (P<0.05), and the levels of 
expression were significantly lower in tissue at stages I and III of ovarian 
cancer than in stages III and IV (P<0.05). The positive rate of OPN associated 
with a higher rate of lymph node metastasis (P<0.05), but did not relate to age 
and histologic type. The positive rate of B7-H4 were significantly higher in 
ovarian serous carcinoma than in the mucinous carcinoma (P<0.05), but did not 
relate to age and lymph node metastasis.
CONCLUSION: The expression of OPN and B7-H4 increased in epithelial ovarian 
cancer, which could be referenced in the diagnosis of ovarian malignant tumors.

PMID: 20038306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Jan 6;102(1):26-38. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djp438. Epub
2009  Dec 30.

Assessing lead time of selected ovarian cancer biomarkers: a nested case-control 
study.

Anderson GL(1), McIntosh M, Wu L, Barnett M, Goodman G, Thorpe JD, Bergan L, 
Thornquist MD, Scholler N, Kim N, O'Briant K, Drescher C, Urban N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
PO Box 19024, M3-A410, Seattle, WA 98109-1024, USA. garnet@whi.org

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Jan 6;102(1):3-4.

BACKGROUND: CA125, human epididymis protein 4 (HE4), mesothelin, B7-H4, decoy 
receptor 3 (DcR3), and spondin-2 have been identified as potential ovarian 
cancer biomarkers. Except for CA125, their behavior in the prediagnostic period 
has not been evaluated.
METHODS: Immunoassays were used to determine concentrations of CA125, HE4, 
mesothelin, B7-H4, DcR3, and spondin-2 proteins in prediagnostic serum specimens 
(1-11 samples per participant) that were contributed 0-18 years before ovarian 
cancer diagnosis from 34 patients with ovarian cancer (15 with advanced-stage 
serous carcinoma) and during a comparable time interval before the reference 
date from 70 matched control subjects who were participating in the Carotene and 
Retinol Efficacy Trial. Lowess curves were fit to biomarker levels in cancer 
patients and control subjects separately to summarize mean levels over time. 
Receiver operating characteristic curves were plotted, and area-under-the curve 
(AUC) statistics were computed to summarize the discrimination ability of these 
biomarkers by time before diagnosis.
RESULTS: Smoothed mean concentrations of CA125, HE4, and mesothelin (but not of 
B7-H4, DcR3, and spondin-2) began to increase (visually) in cancer patients 
relative to control subjects approximately 3 years before diagnosis but reached 
detectable elevations only within the final year before diagnosis. In 
descriptive receiver operating characteristic analyses, the discriminatory power 
of these biomarkers was limited (AUC statistics range = 0.56-0.75) but showed 
increasing accuracy with time approaching diagnosis (eg, AUC statistics for 
CA125 were 0.57, 0.68, and 0.74 for > or = 4, 2-4, and <2 years before 
diagnosis, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Serum concentrations of CA125, HE4, and mesothelin may provide 
evidence of ovarian cancer 3 years before clinical diagnosis, but the likely 
lead time associated with these markers appears to be less than 1 year.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djp438
PMCID: PMC2802285
PMID: 20042715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Immunology. 2009 Nov;128(3):360-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2567.2009.03111.x.

Cell cycle arrest induced by engagement of B7-H4 on Epstein-Barr virus-positive 
B-cell lymphoma cell lines.

Park GB(1), Song H, Kim YS, Sung M, Ryu JW, Lee HK, Cho DH, Kim D, Lee WJ, Hur 
DY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Tumour Immunology, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan, Korea.

B7-H4 is a recently discovered B7 family member that has inhibitory effects on 
T-cell immunity. However, the reverse signalling mechanism of the 
B7-H4-expressing cells remains unclear. Previous work has shown that B7-H4 
expression was enhanced on B cells following Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, 
and engagement of cell-surface-expressed B7-H4 induces cell death of 
EBV-transformed B cells. Here we found that B7-H4 was constitutively expressed 
on EBV-positive lymphoma cells, Raji and IM-9 cells, but was not expressed on 
EBV-negative lymphoma cells (Ramos). Engagement of B7-H4 significantly reduced 
cell growth of Raji and IM-9 cells and resulted in cell cycle arrest at G0-G1 
phase in a dose- and time-dependent manner. To clarify the mechanism of cell 
cycle arrest via activation of B7-H4, cell cycle regulatory factors were 
examined by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and immunoblotting. 
We found that B7-H4 triggered down-regulation of CDK4/6 and up-regulation of p21 
expression at both protein and RNA levels. Furthermore, CDK2 and cyclin E/D 
expression was down-regulated by B7-H4 triggering. Additionally, the 
down-regulation of phospho-AKT and phospho-cyclin E were clearly detected in 
B7-H4-activated Raji cells, but the phosphorylation of p53 was constitutively 
maintained. These results indicate that B7-H4-mediated signalling on 
EBV-positive B-cell lymphoma cells modulates the cell cycle through 
down-regulation of the AKT pathway. Consequently, B7-H4 may be a new potential 
target for use in EBV-positive lymphoma therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2567.2009.03111.x
PMCID: PMC2770684
PMID: 20067536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Gynecol Oncol. 2010 May;117(2):366-72. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2010.01.019. Epub
 2010 Feb 9.

Ovarian cancer creates a suppressive microenvironment to escape immune 
elimination.

Yigit R(1), Massuger LF, Figdor CG, Torensma R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology (791), Radboud University Nijmegen 
Medical Centre, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
R.Yigit@obgyn.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: Considering the high mortality rate of ovarian cancer due to the 
absence of curative treatment in advanced stage or at recurrence, new 
therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. Immunotherapy is one of these 
strategies that yielded promising results in fundamental and animal research in 
the past years. However, implementation in clinical practice remains poor. The 
aim of this review is to gain insight into the mechanisms of interaction between 
ovarian cancer and the immune system in order to develop better 
immunotherapeutic strategies.
METHODS: We searched the published literature for studies focusing on 
interactions between ovarian cancer and the immune system, with emphasis on 
outcome data in order to create a knowledge base that is well grounded in 
clinical reality.
RESULTS: The immunological response against cancer is a critical balance between 
immune-activating and immune-suppressing mechanisms. Besides the 
immune-activating tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), immune-suppressive 
regulatory T-cells (Tregs), tolerance-inducing plasmacytoid dendritic cells 
(pDCs), B7-H4+ macrophages, immune-suppressive cytokines such as IL10 and 
TGF-beta are also found in the tumor environment. Myeloid-derived suppressive 
cells (MDSCs) are recently found to have a significant role in immune 
suppression in ovarian cancer in murine studies. Furthermore, vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is also known to have an immune-suppressing 
role besides its angiogenic role. All those concerted mechanisms result in the 
creation of an environment where the cancer is invincible and can grow 
unhampered.
CONCLUSION: Further knowledge of the mechanisms involved is needed to develop 
better strategies and improve the clinical applicability of immunotherapy. 
Effective immunotherapy must combine immune-activating strategies with 
elimination of immune-suppressing mechanisms. We believe that tilting the 
balance from an immune-suppressive to an immune-active environment may have an 
enormous impact on the disease.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2010.01.019
PMID: 20144842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2010 Jun;21(6):933-42. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2009060592. Epub
2010  Mar 18.

IL-10/TGF-beta-modified macrophages induce regulatory T cells and protect 
against adriamycin nephrosis.

Cao Q(1), Wang Y, Zheng D, Sun Y, Wang Y, Lee VW, Zheng G, Tan TK, Ince J, 
Alexander SI, Harris DC.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Transplantation and Renal Research, University of Sydney, Westmead 
Millennium Institute, and Centre for Kidney Research, Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, Level 2 Block D, Darcy Road, Westmead, New South Wales, Australia.

IL-10/TGF-beta-modified macrophages, a subset of activated macrophages, produce 
anti-inflammatory cytokines, suggesting that they may protect against 
inflammation-mediated injury. Here, macrophages modified ex vivo by 
IL-10/TGF-beta (IL-10/TGF-beta Mu2) significantly attenuated renal inflammation, 
structural injury, and functional decline in murine adriamycin nephrosis (AN). 
These cells deactivated effector macrophages and inhibited CD4+ T cell 
proliferation. IL-10/TGF-beta Mu2 expressed high levels of the regulatory 
co-stimulatory molecule B7-H4, induced regulatory T cells from CD4+CD25- T cells 
in vitro, and increased the number of regulatory T cells in lymph nodes draining 
the kidneys in AN. The phenotype of IL-10/TGF-beta Mu2 did not switch to that of 
effector macrophages in the inflamed kidney, and these cells did not promote 
fibrosis. Taken together, these data demonstrate that IL-10/TGF-beta-modified 
macrophages effectively protect against renal injury in AN and may become part 
of a therapeutic strategy for chronic inflammatory disease.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2009060592
PMCID: PMC2900959
PMID: 20299353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. J Invest Dermatol. 2010 Jul;130(7):1914-21. doi: 10.1038/jid.2010.59. Epub
2010  Mar 25.

UVR-induced regulatory T cells switch antigen-presenting cells from a 
stimulatory to a regulatory phenotype.

Schwarz A(1), Schwarz T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Kiel, Kiel, Germany.

Comment in
    J Invest Dermatol. 2010 Jul;130(7):1773-5.

UVR-induced regulatory T cells (UVR-Treg) inhibit sensitization in an 
antigen-specific manner. The migratory behavior of UVR-Treg can be reprogrammed 
by antigen-presenting cells (APCs), indicating a cross-talk between these cells. 
Hence, we sought to investigate whether in turn UVR-Treg can influence APCs. 
Bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (DCs) were co-incubated with DNFB-specific 
UVR-Treg. DCs were isolated, coupled with DNBS, and injected into naive mice. 
Contrary to untreated dinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (DNBS)-coupled DC, DCs from 
the cocultures failed to induce sensitization in the recipients. Antibody 
blocking and transwell experiments indicated that both IL-10 and cellular 
contact are required during the co-incubation to induce inhibition. UVR-Treg 
downregulated B7-2 and major histocompatibility complex class II but induced the 
negative regulatory molecules B7-H3 and B7-H4 on DC. To suppress, UVR-Treg had 
to be activated in an antigen-specific manner. However, the suppression was not 
antigen-specific as activated DNFB-specific UVR-Treg inhibited DCs to sensitize 
also against trinitrochlorobenzene. Adoptive transfer experiments revealed that 
injection of hapten-coupled DCs, which were co-incubated with UVR-Treg, further 
induced Treg in the recipients. Together, this indicates that activated UVR-Treg 
can alter APCs in such a way that they lose their sensitizing capacity but in 
turn induce Treg. Thus, UVR-Tregs switch APCs from a stimulatory to a regulatory 
phenotype.

DOI: 10.1038/jid.2010.59
PMID: 20336084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Clin Immunol. 2010 Jul;136(1):30-41. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2010.02.022. Epub
2010  Mar 25.

Ectopic B7-H4-Ig expression attenuates concanavalin A-induced hepatic injury.

Xu JF(1), Xiao H, Hu GY, Zheng SH, Liu W, Yuan CL, Yang H, Lü J, Zheng F, Wang 
CY, Gong FL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Guangdong Medical College, Dongguan, 
Guangdong, 523808, People's Republic of China. imxujunfa@163.com

Previous studies demonstrate that both membrane B7-H4 and B7-H4-Ig fusion 
protein could inhibit T-cell responses. In the present study, we explored the 
potential effect of B7-H4-Ig on liver injury in a hepatitis mouse model induced 
by concanavalin A (ConA). A B7-H4-Ig construct was introduced into animals by 
the hydrodynamic gene delivery approach. It was found that ectopic expression of 
B7-H4-Ig could inhibit ConA-induced elevation of serum levels of ALT and AST, 
suppress liver necrosis and even mortality of mice. Furthermore, we observed 
that pretreatment of B7-H4-Ig dramatically decreased serum levels and the 
expression of mRNA for IL-2, IFN-gamma and IL-4, but increased IL-10 in 
ConA-treated mice. Our results suggest that B7-H4-Ig may protect animals from 
liver injury induced by ConA, which could be associated with reduced serum 
levels for IL-2, IFN-gamma and IL-4 as well as enhanced IL-10 production.

(c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clim.2010.02.022
PMID: 20346734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Histopathology. 2010 Apr;56(5):652-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2559.2010.03516.x.

B7-H4 expression in Brenner tumours, a descriptive and comparative study.

Yee EU, Zaino RJ, Torkko KC, Shroyer KR.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2559.2010.03516.x
PMID: 20459576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Zhonghua Wei Chang Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2010 May;13(5):366-70.

[Influence of co-stimulatory molecules B7-H4 expression on the prognosis of 
patients with gastric cancer treated with cytokine-induced killer cells adoptive 
immunotherapy].

[Article in Chinese]

Jiang JT(1), Wu CP, Shen YP, Zheng L, Wu J, Ji M, Xu B, Chen LJ, Wu YG, Zheng X, 
Zhu YB, Lu BF, Zhang XG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biotechnology, Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology of Jiangsu 
Province, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the influence of co-stimulatory molecules B7-H4 
expression on prognosis of gastric cancer patients treated by cytokine-induced 
killer cells (CIK cells) adoptive immunotherapy.
METHODS: Clinical data of 156 cases of gastric cancer patients were 
retrospectively analyzed. Patients were divided into chemotherapy group(n=81) 
and chemotherapy combined with CIK cell therapy group(n=75). B7-H4 expression 
was detected in the surgical specimens of gastric cancer patients by 
immunohistochemistry assay. Disease-free survival was compared between the 
chemotherapy group and the CIK group at different expression levels of B7-H4.
RESULTS: The difference was not statistically significant in all clinical and 
pathological data between the chemotherapy group and the CIK treatment group 
(P>0.05). The postoperative median tumor-free survival in two groups was 18.0 
and 45.0 months, respectively, and the difference was statistically significant 
(chi(2)=11.631, P=0.001). The postoperative median survival time was 27.0 and 
49.0 months, respectively, and the difference was statistically significant 
(chi(2)=10.907, P=0.001). In 86 patients with low B7-H4 expression, the median 
tumor-free survival time was 32.0 and 62.0 months, respectively, and the 
difference was statistically significant (chi(2)=4.663,P=0.03). In 70 patients 
with high B7-H4 expression, the median tumor-free survival time was 11.0 and 
18.0 months, respectively, and the difference was statistically significant 
(chi(2)=11.971, P=0.001).
CONCLUSION: The median tumor-free survival time of patients with gastric cancer 
may be further improved by chemotherapy combined with CIK cell therapy, 
regardless of the level of B7-H4 expression.

PMID: 20499308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2011 Feb;65(2):164-72. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0897.2010.00897.x.

The immunohistochemical analysis of RCAS1, HLA-G, and B7H4-positive macrophages 
in partial and complete hydatidiform mole in both applied therapeutic surgery 
and surgery followed by chemotherapy.

Basta P(1), Galazka K, Mach P, Jozwicki W, Walentowicz M, Wicherek L.

Author information:
(1)Gynecology, Obstetrics and Oncology of the Jagiellonian University, Krakow, 
Poland.

INTRODUCTION: The suppressive microenvironment developing around the 
implantating ovum in normal pregnant women may correlate with the development in 
cancer patients of a suppressive microenvironment of neoplasmatic cells derived 
from trophoblasts, such as occurs in molar lesions. Macrophages are suitable 
candidates for mediating not only the balance of the maternal defensive immune 
responses to external antigens, but also a tolerance to tumor cells. The aim of 
our study has been to gain information about the expression of RCAS1, B7H4, and 
HLA-G within the macrophages present in the microenvironment of the molar 
lesion.
METHODS: We analyzed the immunoreactivity of such antigens as B7H4, RCAS1, and 
HLA-G on the macrophages present in tissue samples derived from patients on whom 
curettage was performed after a diagnosis of molar pregnancy. These patients 
were then divided into two subgroups according to whether or not they required 
chemotherapy after the surgical procedure.
RESULTS: We observed a statistically significant increase in the RCAS1-positive 
macrophage infiltration within the microenvironment of the molar lesions in 
patients with partial hydatidiform mole in comparison with those patients who 
exhibited complete hydatidiform mole. There were no such differences, however, 
in the infiltration of HLA-G- and B7H4-positive macrophages between the two 
groups of patients. Additionally, we showed that RCAS1- and HLA-G-positive 
macrophages are more distinct in those cases of complete molar pregnancy where 
chemotherapy was necessary after surgical treatment while no such differences 
with respect to B7H4-positive macrophages were observed.
CONCLUSION: The immune-suppressive endometrial microenvironment represented by 
suppressive macrophages may have an influence on the clinical course of 
hydatidiform mole.

© 2010 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.2010.00897.x
PMID: 20645939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2010 Nov;59(11):1707-14. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-010-0900-7. Epub 2010 Aug 20.

Tumor expression of B7-H4 predicts poor survival of patients suffering from 
gastric cancer.

Jiang J(1), Zhu Y, Wu C, Shen Y, Wei W, Chen L, Zheng X, Sun J, Lu B, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, The Third Affiliated Hospital, 
Soochow University, Changzhou, China.

To establish the prognostic value of B7-H4 expression by tumor cells in gastric 
cancer patients, we evaluated the association of B7-H4 expression with 
clinicopathologic factors and overall survival of gastric cancer patients. A 
retrospective cohort study including 156 gastric cancer patients was performed 
in the present report. Immunohistochemical assay was used to evaluate the 
expression of B7-H4 in the surgical specimens of gastric cancer tissues. 
Multi-univariate COX model was then used to evaluate the association of B7-H4 
expression with the patients' survival and clinicopathological parameters. B7-H4 
expression in the gastric cancer cells was observed in about 44.9% gastric 
cancer specimens. Univariate analysis demonstrated that there was no correlation 
between B7-H4 expression and sex, age, histological type, pathological grade or 
tumor size. In contrast, B7-H4 expression correlated positively with cancer 
invasiveness and lymph node metastasis. In addition, the median overall survival 
time of patients with lower B7-H4 expression was 13 months longer than that of 
patients with higher expression (chi(2) = 12.38, P < 0.0001), and the median 
disease-free survival time of patients with lower B7-H4 expression was 
significantly longer than that of patients with higher expression (33 vs. 16 
months, chi(2) = 14.977, P < 0.0001). After adjustment for other confounding 
factors, the COX model analysis indicated that the death risk was significantly 
higher in patients with higher B7-H4 expression than those with lower expression 
(RR = 1.85, 95% CI = 1.15-2.96). The present study demonstrated that higher 
B7-H4 expression in cancer cells was associated with poor prognosis of gastric 
cancer patients. This is consistent with the idea that B7-H4 promotes cancer 
progression, likely via inhibition of anti-tumor immune responses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-010-0900-7
PMID: 20725832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2010 Jul;39(4):345-9. doi: 
10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2010.04.002.

[Expression of B7-H4 in prostate cancer and its clinical significance].

[Article in Chinese]

Qian Y(1), Yao HP, Shen L, Cheng LF, Zhang LH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression of B7-H4 in prostate cancer tissue and 
the relationship between the expression and the clinicopathological features.
METHODS: Immunohistochemical staining was used to detect the expression of B7-H4 
in prostate cancer tissue. And the relationship between the expressions and 
pathology was evaluated.
RESULTS: The B7-H4 was diffusely expressed in cytoplasm and/or membrane of the 
prostate cancer tissue; the expression was much higher than that in normal 
prostate tissue (P<0.05). The expression of B7-H4 in the prostate cancer tissue 
was higher in patients with higher tumor grade.
CONCLUSION: B7-H4 may be used as an new indicator for the diagnosis and 
prognosis of prostate cancer and a novel target for immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2010.04.002
PMID: 20731031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Sep;26(9):849-51.

[Comparison the inhibitory effects of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells 
and human placenta mesenchymal stem cells on T cell proliferation].

[Article in Chinese]

Luan XY(1), Liu XB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical College, Yantai 264003, China. 
xyluan@sohu.com

AIM: To compare and study the inhibitory effects of human bone marrow 
mesenchymal stem cells (HBMSCs) and human palacenta mesenchymal stem cells 
(HPMSCs) on T cell proliferation, and the underlying mechanism.
METHODS: The expression of B7H4 on HBMSCs or the expression of PDL1 on HPMSCs 
were detected by FCM. Blocking experiment was used to analyze the effects of 
B7H4 or PDL1 on HBMSCs or HPMSCs mediating suppression on T cell proliferation 
and cell cycle.
RESULTS: FCM detection showed that HBMSCs highly expressed B7H4, while HPMSCs 
highly expressed PDL1, the negative immune molecules. Blockade B7H4 on HBMSCs 
with B7H4mAb significantly attenuated the inhibitory effects of HBMSCs on T cell 
proliferation. Likewise, blocking the expression of PDL1 on HPMSCs obviously 
weakened the suppressive effects of HPMSCs on T cell proliferation activated by 
PHA. Moreover, Blockade B7H4 on HBMSCs with B7H4mAb or PDL1 on HPMSCs with 
PDL1mAb significantly weakened the inhibitory effects of HBMSCs or HPMSCs on T 
cell cycle through down-regulating the cell number in G(0);/G(1); phase and 
up-regulating the cell number in S phase.
CONCLUSION: HBMSCs and HPMSCs could mediate the suppressive effects on T cell 
proliferation through expressing different negative immune molecules.

PMID: 20815979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Sep;26(9):893-4.

[Clinical significance of determination of serum B7-H4 in patients with 
malignant hematologic diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang XM(1), Hu GY, Liu W, Zheng SH, Lv J, Wang HM, Xu JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Guangdong 
Medical College, Zhanjiang 524001, China.

AIM: To study the clinical significance of determination of serum B7-H4 in 
patients with malignant hematologic diseases.
METHODS: Serum B7-H4 levels were determined in 65 patients with leucemia, 34 
patients with lymphoma, 12 patients with multiple myeloma as well as in 50 
healthy controls.
RESULTS: The serum B7-H4 levels in patients with lymphoma [(38.81+/-10.34) 
kappag/L] were significantly higher than healthy controls [(31.62+/-9.850) 
kappag/L] (P<0.01). But there are no significant difference of B7-H4 levels in 
serum among patients with leucemia, patients with multiple myeloma and healthy 
controls.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the B7-H4 may correlated with lymphoma, 
but uncorrelated with leucemia and multiple myeloma. Measurement of serum B7-H4 
level provide useful information for distinctive diagnosis of different kinds of 
malignant hematologic diseases.

PMID: 20815987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Surg Oncol. 2010 Dec 1;102(7):748-52. doi: 10.1002/jso.21722.

Expression of B7-H4 in blood of patients with gastric cancer predicts tumor 
progression and prognosis.

Arigami T(1), Uenosono Y, Hirata M, Hagihara T, Yanagita S, Ishigami S, Natsugoe 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology and Digestive Surgery, Field of Oncology, 
Course of Advanced Therapeutics, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical 
and Dental Sciences, Kagoshima, Japan. arigami@m.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: B7-H4 is a novel molecular B7 ligand that plays an 
important role as a negative regulator of the T cell-mediated immune response. 
However, the clinical significance of B7-H4 expression in gastric cancer remains 
uncertain. Here, we assessed B7-H4 expression in blood of patients with gastric 
cancer to determine whether or not it can predict tumor progression and 
prognosis.
METHODS: We measured B7-H4 mRNA expression by quantitative RT-PCR in five 
gastric cell lines as well as in blood specimens from 94 patients with gastric 
cancer and from 22 healthy volunteers.
RESULTS: Significantly more B7-H4 mRNA copies were found in gastric cell lines 
and in blood from patients with gastric cancer than in blood from healthy 
volunteers (P < 0.0001 and P < 0.0001, respectively). B7-H4 expressed in 71 
(75.5%) of 94 patients with gastric cancer significantly correlated with depth 
of tumor invasion, lymph node metastasis, and overall stage (P = 0.006, 
P = 0.001, and P < 0.001, respectively). The 5-year survival rate was 
significantly lower in patients with than without B7-H4 expression (P = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: The evaluation of B7-H4 expression in blood is a useful tool for 
predicting the progression of gastric cancer and prognosis.

2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.21722
PMID: 20872810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Hepatology. 2010 Dec;52(6):2177-85. doi: 10.1002/hep.23953. Epub 2010 Nov 9.

B7-H4 mediates inhibition of T cell responses by activated murine hepatic 
stellate cells.

Chinnadurai R(1), Grakoui A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Microbiology and Immunology, Emory Vaccine Center, 
Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 30329, USA.

Liver fibrosis is mediated by the transformation of hepatic stellate cells (HSC) 
from a quiescent to an activated state. To understand the role of HSC in liver 
immunity, we investigated the effect of this transition on T cell stimulation in 
vitro. Unlike quiescent HSC, activated HSC did not induce proliferation of 
antigen-specific T cells. Phenotypic analysis of quiescent and activated HSC 
revealed that activated HSC expressed the coinhibitory molecule B7-H4. Silencing 
B7-H4 by small interfering RNA (siRNA) in activated HSC restored the ability of 
T cells to proliferate, differentiate, and regain effector recall responses. 
Furthermore, expression of B7-H4 on HSC inhibits early T cell activation and 
addition of exogenous interleukin (IL)-2 reversed the T cell anergy induced by 
activated HSC.
CONCLUSION: These studies reveal a novel role for activated HSC in the 
attenuation of intrahepatic T cell responses by way of expression of the 
coinhibitory molecule B7-H4, and may provide fundamental insight into 
intrahepatic immunity during liver fibrogenesis.

Copyright © 2010 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.23953
PMCID: PMC2995273
PMID: 21064155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Oncotarget. 2010 Sep;1(5):329-38. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.165.

CD277 is a negative co-stimulatory molecule universally expressed by ovarian 
cancer microenvironmental cells.

Cubillos-Ruiz JR(1), Martinez D, Scarlett UK, Rutkowski MR, Nesbeth YC, 
Camposeco-Jacobs AL, Conejo-Garcia JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Dartmouth Medical School, Lebanon, 
NH 03756, USA.

CD277, a member of the butyrophilin subfamily 3 (BTN3), shares significant 
sequence similarities and predicted common structural features with inhibitory 
B7-H4 and other members of the B7 superfamily. Here we report that CD277 is 
consistently expressed in stromal, as well as tumor cells in the 
microenvironment of human advanced ovarian carcinoma specimens, both of primary 
and metastatic origin. MHC-II+ myeloid antigenpresenting leukocytes (dendritic 
cells and macrophages) express significantly higher levels of surface CD277, 
compared to other tumor-infiltrating leukocyte subsets, and this expression is 
significantly up-regulated by multiple common tumor microenvironmental signals, 
including VEGF and CCL3. Most importantly, engagement of CD277 on the surface of 
TCR-stimulated T cells inhibits their otherwise robust expansion and production 
of Th1 cytokines by preventing the up-regulation of cFLIP. Our results point to 
a role for CD277 up-regulated by microenvironmental signals in the acquisition 
of a regulatory phenotype by tumor-associated myeloid cells. Consequently, 
CD277, and likely other butyrophilins and butyrophilin-like molecules, emerge as 
regular players in the orchestration of immunosuppressive networks in ovarian 
cancer, and therefore new targets for interventions to overcome immune evasion 
and boost anti-tumor immunity in cancer patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.165
PMCID: PMC2992324
PMID: 21113407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


79. Inflammation. 2011 Dec;34(6):688-97. doi: 10.1007/s10753-010-9280-6.

Intracellular B7-H4 suppresses bile duct epithelial cell apoptosis in human 
primary biliary cirrhosis.

Chen Y(1), Guo G, Guo S, Shimoda S, Shroyer KR, Tang Y, Wu Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunology, PLA, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing, 
400038, People's Republic of China.

The expression and function of B7-H4, a recently identified co-inhibitory 
molecule of the B7 superfamily, in the pathogenesis of primary biliary cirrhosis 
(PBC) is still unclear. Here the expression of B7-H4 in sections from PBC 
patients (n = 16) was examined by immunohistochemistry and it was detected in 
primary bile duct epithelial cells (BECs) which were isolated from PBC patients 
by flow cytometry (FACs). Moreover, we also analyzed BECs-associated B7-H4 
function through knock-down of its expression via RNA interference (RNAi) in 
vitro. Immunohistochemistry and FACs evidenced that the expression of B7-H4 was 
restricted in the cytoplasm of BECs from PBC patients, while it was completely 
absent in normal liver tissues. The cytoplasmic B7-H4 gene was cloned, and 
sequenced analysis showed it was encoded by the same gene to the membrane B7-H4. 
Interesting, silencing B7-H4 by specific RNAi resulted in enhanced FasL 
expression and BEC apoptosis. Conversely, interruption of Fas\FasL interaction 
with using FasL blocking antibodies (clone 4H9) reversed cell apoptosis. Our 
results suggested that the intracellular B7-H4 appears to prevent 
Fas/FasL-mediated BEC apoptosis during the progression of PBC, and indicates 
B7-H4 is a possible target for therapeutic intervention of this disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-010-9280-6
PMID: 21120594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Am J Transplant. 2010 Oct;10(10):2355-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2010.03250.x.  Epub 2010 Sep 14.

In vivo function of immune inhibitory molecule B7-H4 in alloimmune responses.

Yamaura K(1), Watanabe T, Boenisch O, Yeung M, Yang S, Magee CN, Padera R, Datta 
S, Schatton T, Kamimura Y, Azuma M, Najafian N.

Author information:
(1)Transplantation Research Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

B7 ligands deliver both costimulatory and coinhibitory signals to the CD28 
family of receptors on T lymphocytes, the balance between which determines the 
ultimate immune response. Although B7-H4, a recently discovered member of the B7 
family, is known to negatively regulate T cell immunity in autoimmunity and 
cancer, its role in solid organ allograft rejection and tolerance has not been 
established. Targeting the B7-H4 molecule by a blocking antibody or use of 
B7-H4(-/-) mice as recipients of fully MHC-mismatched cardiac allografts did not 
affect graft survival. However, B7-H4 blockade resulted in accelerated allograft 
rejection in CD28-deficient recipients. B7-1/B7-2-double-deficient recipients 
are truly independent of CD28/CTLA-4:B7 signals and usually accept 
MHC-mismatched heart allografts. Blockade of B7-H4 in these mice also 
precipitated rejection, demonstrating regulatory function of this molecule 
independent of an intact CD28/CTLA-4:B7 costimulatory pathway. Accelerated 
allograft rejection was always accompanied by increased frequencies of 
alloreactive IFN-γ-, IL-4- and Granzyme B-producing splenocytes. Finally, intact 
recipient, but not donor, B7-H4 is essential for prolongation of allograft 
survival by blocking CD28/CTLA4:B7 pathway using CTLA4-Ig. These data are the 
first to provide evidence of the regulatory effects of B7-H4 in alloimmune 
responses in a murine model of solid organ transplantation.

©2010 The Authors Journal compilation©2010 The American Society of 
Transplantation and the American Society of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2010.03250.x
PMID: 21143433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Clin Exp Med. 2011 Sep;11(3):163-70. doi: 10.1007/s10238-010-0125-2. Epub
2010  Dec 29.

B7-H4 expression in various tumors determined using a novel developed monoclonal 
antibody.

Qian Y(1), Shen L, Cheng L, Wu Z, Yao H.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, 
Institute of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.

B7-H4, a new member of the B7 family, may participate in the negative regulation 
of cell-mediated immunity, while aberrant B7-H4 expression is detected in some 
tumors and it participates in the occurrence and development of the tumors. In 
this study, we developed one monoclonal antibody (mAb) whose clone No. was 4H8 
against the extracellular domains of B7-H4 through immunization of Balb/c mice 
with the 3T3-mB7-H4 cells that expressed extrinsic B7-H4 stably. And we detected 
the expression characteristics of B7-H4 in various tumors using 4H8 mAb by 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), immunoprecipitation and 
immunohistochemistry (IHC) analysis. B7-H4 expression was significantly higher 
in the tumor tissues derived from uterus, breast, and colon than in their 
corresponding normal tissues. Further, the B7-H4 expression was related to the 
stage of the tumors. In contrast, B7-H4 expression did not differ significantly 
between the tumor tissues derived from the stomach and liver and the normal 
tissues. Different expression levels of B7-H4 in the tumors indicated that B7-H4 
may be involved in tumor formation and development. Specific mAbs against B7-H4 
will be useful in studying the role of B7-H4 in tumor pathogenesis and 
pathological process.

DOI: 10.1007/s10238-010-0125-2
PMID: 21190056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. J Immunol. 2011 Mar 15;186(6):3346-55. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1001322. Epub
2011  Feb 11.

Estriol generates tolerogenic dendritic cells in vivo that protect against 
autoimmunity.

Papenfuss TL(1), Powell ND, McClain MA, Bedarf A, Singh A, Gienapp IE, Shawler 
T, Whitacre CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Biosciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, The 
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. papenfuss.1@osu.edu

Chronic inflammation contributes to numerous diseases, and regulation of 
inflammation is crucial for disease control and resolution. Sex hormones have 
potent immunoregulatory abilities. Specifically, estrogen influences immune 
cells and inflammation, which contributes to the sexual dimorphism of 
autoimmunity and protection against disease seen during pregnancy in multiple 
sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis 
(EAE). Although long thought to act primarily on T cells, recent evidence 
demonstrated that myeloid cells, such as dendritic cells (DCs), are essential in 
mediating estrogen's protective effects. Estriol (E3), a pregnancy-specific 
estrogen, has therapeutic efficacy in MS and EAE, and we evaluated whether E3 
could act exclusively through DCs to protect against the inflammatory autoimmune 
disease EAE. Levels of activation markers (CD80 and CD86) and inhibitory 
costimulatory markers (PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3, and B7-H4) were increased in E3 DCs. 
E3 DCs had decreased proinflammatory IL-12, IL-23, and IL-6 mRNA expression, 
increased immunoregulatory IL-10 and TGF-β mRNA expression, and a decreased 
ratio of IL-12/IL-10 protein production. Importantly, transfer of E3 DCs to mice 
prior to active induction of EAE protected them from developing EAE through 
immune deviation to a Th2 response. This protection was apparent, even in the 
face of in vitro and in vivo inflammatory challenge. In summary, our results 
showed that E3 generates tolerogenic DCs, which protect against the inflammatory 
autoimmune disease EAE. Targeted generation of tolerogenic DCs with 
immunomodulatory therapeutics, such as E3, has potential applications in the 
treatment of numerous autoimmune and chronic inflammatory diseases.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1001322
PMCID: PMC3600583
PMID: 21317386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Clin Cancer Res. 2011 May 15;17(10):3100-11. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-10-2268.  Epub 2011 Mar 4.

B7-h4 expression in human melanoma: its association with patients' survival and 
antitumor immune response.

Quandt D(1), Fiedler E, Boettcher D, Marsch WCh, Seliger B.

Author information:
(1)Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, Institute of Medical Immunology, 
Halle, Germany.

PURPOSE: Cancers have developed a number of strategies to escape immune 
responses including the differential expression of costimulatory molecules of 
the B7 family. B7-H3 and B7-H4 have recently been described in different tumor 
entities but the relevance for melanoma has not yet been studied so far.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using immunohistochemistry, B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression was 
studied on 29 melanoma lesions. Survival curves and log-rank tests were used to 
test the association of protein expression with survival. Cell lines were 
evaluated for B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression by PCR and flow cytometry. Functional 
T-cell-tumor coculture assays were carried out with in vitro generated tumor 
transfectants.
RESULTS: B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression was detected in primary tumor lesions (29 of 
29 and 28 of 29) and in metastases (28 of 29 and 26 of 29). The numbers of 
CD68(+) macrophages were significantly lower in patients with low B7-H4 
expression, whereas CD8(+) T-cell infiltrates were independent of expression 
levels. Furthermore, a survival benefit for patients with B7-H4 low expressing 
melanoma was found, whereas B7-H3 was not associated with any clinical 
parameter. All 23 melanoma cell lines analyzed expressed B7-H3 and B7-H4 mRNA 
and protein, but B7-H4 was restricted to intracellular compartments. On 
silencing of B7-H3 by specific shRNA tumor-associated antigen-specific T cell 
responses were unaltered. Overexpression of B7-H4 on melanoma cells did not 
alter the cytotoxicity of different CD8(+) effector cells, but drastically 
inhibited cytokine production.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides for the first time evidence of B7-H4 expression 
on melanoma cells as a mechanism controlling tumor immunity which is associated 
with patients' survival.

©2011 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-10-2268
PMID: 21378130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Korean J Urol. 2011 Feb;52(2):90-5. doi: 10.4111/kju.2011.52.2.90. Epub 2011
Feb  19.

The Relationship between B7-H4 Expression and Clinicopathological 
Characteristics in Clinical Stage T1 Conventional Renal Cell Carcinoma.

Jung SG(1), Choi KU, Lee SD, Lee ZZ, Chung MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Pusan National University Yangsan Hospital, Pusan 
National University School of Medicine, Yangsan, Korea.

PURPOSE: The diagnosis of clinically early-stage (T1) renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
has increased. The present study evaluated the association of B7-H4 expression 
on the pathological outcome and recurrence of carcinoma in the T1 stage of RCC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Among patients who underwent partial or radical 
nephrectomy after diagnosis of T1 stage RCC during the period of January 2000 to 
March 2007, 102 pathologically confirmed cases of clear cell carcinoma were 
included in this study. The patients' medical records were reviewed 
retrospectively. For the immunohistochemical staining tests, the B7-H4 antibody 
(Abbiotec 1:500) was used, and clinicopathological characteristics were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients (39 males: 38.2%, 63 females: 61.8%) was 
53.0±12.0 years (range, 31-74 years), and the mean follow-up time was 33.4±21.0 
months (range, 6-84 months). B7-H4 expression was positive in 18 cases and 
negative in 84 cases. Recurrence during the follow-up period occurred in 5 cases 
in the group with positive B7-H4 expression and in 7 cases in the group with 
negative B7-H4 expression, respectively (p=0.035). In the univariate analysis, a 
statistically significant relationship was observed only for the presence of 
B7-H4 expression (p=0.0019). In the multivariate analysis, other than the 
expression of B7-H4, cancer size and TNM stage had effects on the recurrence of 
cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: For clear cell RCC, B7-H4 expression had a critical impact on the 
prognosis of the patients, particularly on the recurrence of the carcinoma in 
patients with clinical stage T1 RCC.

DOI: 10.4111/kju.2011.52.2.90
PMCID: PMC3045725
PMID: 21379424

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have nothing to disclose.


85. Folia Histochem Cytobiol. 2010 Dec;48(4):611-7. doi:
10.2478/v10042-010-0065-4.

The presence of B7-H4+ macrophages and CD25+CD4+ and FOXP3+ regulatory T cells 
in the microenvironment of nasal polyps - a preliminary report.

Dutsch-Wicherek M(1), Tomaszewska R, Lazar A, Strek P, Wicherek L, Kijowski J, 
Majka M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland. 
mowicher@gmail.com

The nasal polyp (NP) seems to represent the end-stage of longstanding 
inflammation in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis. The aim of our study has 
been to evaluate the presence of two regulatory cell populations in the 
microenvironment of NP: CD4+CD25high Foxp3+ (Treg) cells and B7-H4-expressing 
macrophages. Treg cells are actively able to inhibit T lymphocytes, while the 
population of B7-H4-expressing macrophages has recently been described as 
characterized by a regulatory function similar to that of Treg cells. For our 
study, we evaluated 14 NP tissue samples. The samples were divided into two main 
groups, eosinophilic (NP) and lymphocytic (NP), according to the predominant 
type of immune cell infiltration. The presence of Treg cells and B7-H4 positive 
macrophages in the samples was analyzed by FACS. Treg cells and B7-H4-expressing 
macrophages were identified in all the examined nasal polyps. The percentages of 
both Treg cells and of B7H4 positive cells found in the eosinophilic nasal 
polyps were higher than those found in the lymphocytic nasal polyps. Treg cells 
and B7H4+ macrophage subpopulations were present in the NP microenvironment and 
the alterations in their percentages were related to a distinct pattern of 
immune cell infiltration.

DOI: 10.2478/v10042-010-0065-4
PMID: 21478105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Folia Histochem Cytobiol. 2010 Dec;48(4):658-62. doi:
10.2478/v10042-010-0054-7.

The expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules on immature myeloid and lymphoid 
dendritic cells in cord blood of healthy neonates.

Kludka-Sternik M(1), Serafin A, Darmochwal-Kolarz D, Radej S, Rolinski J, 
Leszczynska-Gorzelak B, Oleszczuk J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Medical University of Lublin, Poland. 
magdalenakludka@go2.pl

The aim of our study was to estimate both B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules on immature 
myeloid and lymphoid dendritic cells in umbilical cord blood of healthy neonates 
in comparison with peripheral blood of healthy adults. Thirty nine healthy 
full-term neonates from physiological single pregnancies and 27 healthy adults 
were included in the study. The expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 was revealed using 
the immunofluorescence method. Statistical analysis was performed using a 
non-parametric test (Mann-Whitney U-Test). The percentages of BDCA-1+ dendritic 
cells with B7-H1 and B7-H4 expressions were significantly higher in peripheral 
blood of healthy adults (p<0.00003). It was either observed that the percentage 
of BDCA-2+ dendritic cells with the expression of B7-H4 molecules was 
significantly higher in peripheral blood of healthy adults in comparison with 
umbilical cord blood (p<0.02). Decreased percentages of dendritic cells and 
co-stimulatory molecules indicate that neonates have immature immune system. 
Depletion of co-stimulatory B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules enable appropriate 
development of immune response.

DOI: 10.2478/v10042-010-0054-7
PMID: 21478111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2011 Jul;60(7):1047-55. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-011-1017-3. Epub 2011 Apr 26.

B7-H4 expression associates with cancer progression and predicts patient's 
survival in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.

Chen LJ(1), Sun J, Wu HY, Zhou SM, Tan Y, Tan M, Shan BE, Lu BF, Zhang XG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Biotechnology, Medical College of Suzhou University, 708 
Renmin Road, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.

A retrospective cohort study including 112 patients suffering from esophageal 
squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) was performed to investigate the expression of 
B7-H4 in ESCC and determine its association with patient's clinicopathological 
parameters and survival. Expression levels of B7-H4 on tumor cells and densities 
of tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in the surgical specimens of ESCC 
tissues were characterized using immunohistochemical assays. Uni- and 
multivariate analyses were performed to evaluate the prognostic value of B7-H4 
expression levels and densities of TILs in tumor sections. Positive B7-H4 
immunostaining was observed in 107 of 112 (95.5%) of ESCC tissue sections. We 
further divided all patients into two major subgroups, a lower B7-H4 expression 
group with 46 patients and a higher B7-H4 expression group with 66 patients. We 
found that expression levels of B7-H4 on tumor cells were significantly 
correlated with patient's gender (P = 0.0288), distant metastasis (P = 0.0500), 
and TNM stage (P = 0.0258). Moreover, tumor cell B7-H4 expression was inversely 
correlated with densities of CD3(+) T cells in tumor nest (P = 0.0424) and 
CD8(+) T cells in tumor stroma (P = 0.0229). The overall survival rate of the 
patients with higher B7-H4 expression was significantly worse than that of the 
patients with lower B7-H4 expression (P = 0.0105, Hazard Ratio: 1.854, 
95%CI:1.152-2.902). Markers of cell-mediated immune responses such as CD3, CD8, 
and T-bet were associated with better patient survival. The present study 
demonstrated that B7-H4 expression in human ESCC is associated with cancer 
progression, reduced tumor immunosurveillance and worse patient outcomes. B7-H4 
can serve as a novel prognostic predictor for human ESCC and a potential target 
for the immune therapy against this malignancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-011-1017-3
PMID: 21519829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Immunol Res. 2011 Aug;50(2-3):269-75. doi: 10.1007/s12026-011-8227-9.

T-cell-mediated tumor immune surveillance and expression of B7 co-inhibitory 
molecules in cancers of the upper gastrointestinal tract.

Lu B(1), Chen L, Liu L, Zhu Y, Wu C, Jiang J, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, E1047 
BST, 200 Lothrop Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. Binfeng@pitt.edu

Tumorigenesis can induce adaptive T-cell-mediated immune responses against 
malignant cells. Such cellular immune responses are actively suppressed by 
cancer cells via mechanisms of immune tolerance. We studied T-cell responses 
against tumor growth by examining tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in upper 
gastrointestinal (GI) cancers. The number of T-bet(+) TILs correlates with 
better survival of esophageal cancer patients. Using well-defined mouse models, 
we have further shown that T-bet and Eomes are both required for the adaptive 
anti-tumor immunity by regulating T-cell trafficking into the tumor tissue and 
their effector functions inside the tumor microenvironment. In order to gain 
further insight into the tumor immune microenvironment in the upper GI cancer, 
we have also studied expression levels of co-inhibitory molecules such as 
B7-H1/PD-L1 and B7-H4 in tissue specimens of esophageal and gastric cancers. 
These inhibitory B7 molecules were expressed at high but variable levels by 
cancer cells. The overexpression of these molecules correlates with poor 
clinicopathological parameters and shorter patient survival time. The number of 
CD3(+) and CD8(+) TILs correlates inversely with expression levels of B7-H4 in 
samples from esophageal cancer, supporting a role of active immune suppression 
by inhibitory B7 molecules in the tumor microenvironment. In addition, TILs show 
functional exhaustion and express high levels of PD-1 and Tim-3. We propose that 
metabolic competition mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases (PI3Ks) 
characterizes the immune suppression within cancer tissues. Future tumor vaccine 
design should combine blockade of B7 inhibitory molecules and enhancement of 
T-bet and Eomes levels within the tumor microenvironment.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-011-8227-9
PMID: 21717068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. J Immunoassay Immunochem. 2011;32(4):353-64. doi:
10.1080/15321819.2011.578190.

Overexpression of B7-H4 in tumor infiltrated dendritic cells.

Cheng C(1), Qu QX, Shen Y, Lv YT, Zhu YB, Zhang XG, Huang JA.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou, PR China.

DCs infiltrated tumors appears to be phenotypically and functionally defective. 
B7-H4 was highlighted for its inhibitory role in T cell responses. In this 
study, we showed that B7-H4 was moderately expressed in imDCs, and up-regulated 
by IL-10, and TNF-α could counteract the up-regulatory effects of IL-10 on 
expression of B7-H4 in DCs in vitro. Furthermore, tumor infiltrated DCs 
expressed B7-H4 at high levels. Blockade of B7-H4 expressed in DCs highly 
resulted in enhanced T cell proliferation and IFN-γ production significantly. 
Otherwise, the high level of IL-10 and TNF-α was both detected in the tumor, 
which suggested that TNF-α can not antagonize the effects of IL-10 on expression 
of B7-H4 in DCs in vivo. These data indicate that tumor environment may 
condition local DCs to become dysfunctional in the phenotype, and that the high 
expression of B7-H4 may contribute to the tumor infiltrated DCs to mediate 
immune invasion.

DOI: 10.1080/15321819.2011.578190
PMID: 21728826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. World J Surg. 2011 Sep;35(9):2051-7. doi: 10.1007/s00268-011-1186-4.

Clinical significance of the B7-H4 coregulatory molecule as a novel prognostic 
marker in gastric cancer.

Arigami T(1), Uenosono Y, Ishigami S, Hagihara T, Haraguchi N, Natsugoe S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology and Digestive Surgery, Field of Oncology, 
Course of Advanced Therapeutics, Kagoshima University Graduate School of Medical 
and Dental Sciences, 8-35-1 Sakuragaoka, Kagoshima, 890-8520, Japan. 
arigami@m.kufm.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The B7-H4 coregulatory molecule is a member of the B7 family of 
molecules, which regulate the T-cell-mediated immune response through CD28 
receptors. Recently, B7-H4 has been reported to be a negative regulator of the 
immune response in patients with several malignant diseases. However, few 
reports have investigated the clinical significance of B7-H4 expression in 
patients with gastric cancer. In the present study, we analyzed B7-H4 expression 
and the relationship between its expression and clinicopathological factors 
including prognosis in gastric cancer.
METHODS: B7-H4 expression in gastric cancer cell lines and clinical gastric 
cancer specimens was initially assessed with the reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Moreover, B7-H4 and CD3 
expression in 120 resected specimens from gastric cancer patients were evaluated 
by immunohistochemistry (IHC).
RESULTS: B7-H4 expression was identified in the gastric cancer cell lines and 
clinical tumor tissues by RT-PCR. B7-H4 expression was high in 25.8% (31/120) of 
resected tumor specimens. B7-H4 expression significantly correlated with tumor 
stage (P = 0.04). The 5-year survival rate was significantly lower in patients 
with high B7-H4 expression than in those with low B7-H4 expression (P = 0.001). 
Multivariate analysis demonstrated that B7-H4 expression was an independent 
prognostic factor (P = 0.035). Immunohistochemical analysis of CD3 expression 
showed that B7-H4 expression was inversely correlated with the number of tumor 
infiltrating T lymphocytes (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The B7-H4 coregulatory molecule is a novel prognostic marker 
related to the T-cell-mediated immune response, and its pathway may be a 
molecular target for controlling tumor progression in patients with gastric 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-011-1186-4
PMID: 21748517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Aug;27(8):887-90.

[Preparation and characterization of anti-human B7-H4 monoclonal antibodies].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu H(1), Fang P, Liu YP, Shao Y, Gu ZJ.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Institute of Soochow University, Suzhou 215007, China.

AIM: To prepare anti-B7-H4 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and to characterize 
their biological functions.
METHODS: A human B7-H4 transfectant cell line L929/B7-H4 was used as an 
immunogen to immunize BALB/c mice. By means of the B lymphoma hybridoma 
technique, immunofluorescent cytometry, repeated screening and multiple 
subcloning, the hybridoma cell lines specifically secreting anti-B7-H4 mAbs were 
screened. The fast-strip analysis was used to investigate murine Ig subclass. 
The specificity of mAbs was determined by Dot-blot and Western blot. Competitive 
inhibition test was employed to identify mAb binding sites on B7-H4. T cell 
proliferation inhibition blocking test was used to examine mAb biological 
function.
RESULTS: Two hybridoma cell lines were obtained and named 1F10 and 2B2, 
respectively. They could secret continuously and stably specific anti-B7-H4 
mAbs. The result of Dot-blot indicated that two mAbs could recognize 
specifically B7-H4, but only mAb 2B2 recognized B7-H4 when using Western blot. 
The competitive inhibition test showed that two mAbs bound different epitopes on 
B7-H4. The two mAbs could partially block the inhibitory effects of B7-H4 on T 
cell proliferation in vitro.
CONCLUSION: Two hybridoma cell lines secreting anti-B7-H4 mAbs were obtained. 
Obtained two mAbs provided useful tool for further studying B7-H4's biological 
functions.

PMID: 21806888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Eur J Med Res. 2011 Jul 25;16(7):295-302. doi: 10.1186/2047-783x-16-7-295.

Development of a novel monoclonal antibody to B7-H4: characterization and 
biological activity.

Qian Y(1), Shen L, Xu C, Wu Z, Brockmeyer NH, Altmeyer P, Wu N, Yao HP.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, The 
First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun 
Road, Hangzhou 310003, China.

OBJECTIVE: B7-H4, a member of the B7 family of immunoregulatory receptors, may 
participate in the negative regulation of cell-mediated immunity. Aberrant B7-H4 
expression is detected in some tumors and it plays a role in the occurrence and 
development of tumors. The aim of this study was to elucidate the functional and 
structural properties of B7-H4.
METHODS: We developed a monoclonal antibody (mAb) against the extracellular 
domain of B7-H4 through immunization of Balb/c mice with 3T3-mB7-H4 cells which 
expressed extrinsic B7-H4. A stable hybridoma cell line was established. Then, 
we analysed the characterization of the mAb through Enzyme linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA), Immunoprecipitation (IP), western blotting, Immunohistochemical 
(IHC), and tested the biological activity of the mAb.
RESULTS: ELISA, IP, and western blotting analyses indicated that the mAb 
specifically recognized B7-H4. In addition, flow cytometry demonstrated that the 
mAb exhibits excellent reactivity when applied to leukemic cells. IHC staining 
revealed that the mAb stained in a predominantly diffuse plasmalemmal or 
cytoplasmic pattern when applied to certain tumor tissues. The preliminary 
results of the mAb's biological activity showed that the mAb could effectively 
inhibit the function of B7-H4 in the inhibition of T cell, while promoting the 
growth of T cells and the secretion of Interleukin-2 (IL-2), Interleukin-4 
(IL-4), Interleukin-10 (IL-10) and Interferon-? (IFN-γ).
CONCLUSION: This mAb will be a valuable tool for the further investigation of 
B7-H4 function.

DOI: 10.1186/2047-783x-16-7-295
PMCID: PMC3352001
PMID: 21813370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Clin Rheumatol. 2012 Feb;31(2):271-81. doi: 10.1007/s10067-011-1815-1. Epub
2011  Jul 22.

The expression and distribution of immunomodulatory proteins B7-H1, B7-DC, 
B7-H3, and B7-H4 in rheumatoid synovium.

Guo G(1), Shang Y, Zhu G, Bao X, Xu S, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency, South-West Hospital, Third Military Medical 
University, Chongqing, 400038, China.

CD28/B7 signals have been shown to have the capacity to regulate T cell 
activation and participate in regulating the development of rheumatoid arthritis 
(RA). However, the expression and anatomical distribution of some members of the 
B7 superfamily including B7-H1, B7-DC, B7-H3 and B7-H4 in RA synovium is still 
unclear. We analyzed the expression of these molecules in synovial tissues from 
RA patients. Immunohistochemistry showed that all of these molecules were 
observed in synovium. On the cellular level, all of them were found on cell 
membrane and in cytoplasma. The expression of B7-DC and B7-H3 was major on 
capillaries, synovicytes and infiltrated inflammatory cells in the lining layer, 
while B7-H1 and B7-H4 were detected in some inflammatory cells residing in the 
sublining and lining layer. Fluorescent dual staining indicated that all these 
molecules were principally associated with CD31(+) endothelial cells and CD68(+) 
macrophages. In addition, B7-H1 and B7-H3 were also observed on CD3(+) T cells 
(including CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells). Interestingly, B7-H1/B7-H4, B7-H3/B7-DC 
were co-expressed on the same cells. The characteristic expression and 
distribution of these molecules in synovium indicated that they probably have 
different effects during the progress of RA, and a clear understanding of their 
functional roles may further elucidate the pathogenesis of this disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-011-1815-1
PMID: 21833687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Cell Transplant. 2012;21(1):99-111. doi: 10.3727/096368911X582750. Epub 2011
Sep  16.

B7-H4 induces donor-specific tolerance in mouse islet allografts.

Wang X(1), Hao J, Metzger DL, Mui A, Ao Z, Verchere CB, Chen L, Ou D, Warnock 
GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Negative cosignaling molecules play an important role in regulating T-cell 
responses to alloantigen stimulation. We recently reported that 
adenoviral-mediated transduction of islet allografts with B7-H4 inhibits 
allograft rejection. In this study, we investigate the mechanism for 
B7-H4-induced prolongation of mouse islet allograft survival. 
Streptozotocin-induced diabetic C57BL/6 mice were rendered normoglycemic by 
renal subcapsular implants of B7-H4-transduced BALB/c islets. Grafts and spleens 
were removed after days 2, 10, and 60 (n = 8 each) for characterization of 
kinetics of Foxp3 and interleukin 10 (IL-10) expression. Mixed lymphocyte 
reaction (MLR) was done at day 60. Ten mice were subjected to nephrectomy at 60 
days and then five were implanted with secondary BALB/c islets and five were 
given third-party CBA/J islets. An increase in Foxp3 and IL-10 mRNA expression 
was detected in recipients' spleens at day 60 and this was associated with 
increased quantities of Foxp3(+) cells. Splenocytes at day 60 showed 
hyporesponsiveness during MLR to alloantigen stimulation. Proliferation was 
partially restored after CD25(+) T-cell depletion. Secondary BALB/c islets 
survived for 79 ± 29 days compared with 21 ± 3.6 days for CBA/J islets (p < 
0.001). Local expression of B7-H4 induces long-term unresponsiveness to 
donor-specific alloantigens, and is associated with T regulatory cells, 
suggesting the development of tolerance.

DOI: 10.3727/096368911X582750
PMID: 21929869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Diabetes. 2011 Dec;60(12):3246-55. doi: 10.2337/db11-0375. Epub 2011 Oct 7.

Early treatment of NOD mice with B7-H4 reduces the incidence of autoimmune 
diabetes.

Wang X(1), Hao J, Metzger DL, Mui A, Ao Z, Akhoundsadegh N, Langermann S, Liu L, 
Chen L, Ou D, Verchere CB, Warnock GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Autoimmune diabetes is a T cell-mediated disease in which 
insulin-producing β-cells are destroyed. Autoreactive T cells play a central 
role in mediating β-cell destruction. B7-H4 is a negative cosignaling molecule 
that downregulates T-cell responses. In this study, we aim to determine the role 
of B7-H4 on regulation of β-cell-specific autoimmune responses.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Prediabetic (aged 3 weeks) female NOD mice (group 
1, n = 21) were treated with intraperitoneal injections of B7-H4.Ig at 7.5 
mg/kg, with the same amount of mouse IgG (group 2, n = 24), or with no protein 
injections (group 3, n = 24), every 3 days for 12 weeks.
RESULTS: B7-H4.Ig reduced the incidence of autoimmune diabetes, compared with 
the control groups (diabetic mice 28.6% of group 1, 66.7% of group 2 [P = 
0.0081], and 70.8% of group 3 [group 1 vs. 3, P = 0.0035]). Histological 
analysis revealed that B7-H4 treatment did not block islet infiltration but 
rather suppressed further infiltrates after 9 weeks of treatment (group 1 vs. 2, 
P = 0.0003). B7-H4 treatment also reduced T-cell proliferation in response to 
GAD65 stimulation ex vivo. The reduction of diabetes is not due to inhibition of 
activated T cells in the periphery but rather to a transient increase of 
Foxp3(+) CD4(+) T-cell population at one week posttreatment (12.88 ± 1.29 vs. 
11.58 ± 1.46%; n = 8; P = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate the protective role of B7-H4 in the 
development of autoimmune diabetes, suggesting a potential means of preventing 
type 1 diabetes by targeting the B7-H4 pathway.

DOI: 10.2337/db11-0375
PMCID: PMC3219946
PMID: 21984581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Clin Dev Immunol. 2011;2011:695834. doi: 10.1155/2011/695834. Epub 2011 Oct
13.

The inhibitory role of b7-h4 in antitumor immunity: association with cancer 
progression and survival.

He C(1), Qiao H, Jiang H, Sun X.

Author information:
(1)The Hepatosplenic Surgery Center, Department of General Surgery, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical University, Harbin 150001, China.

B7-H4 is one of the most recently identified members of B7 superfamily of 
costimulatory molecules serving as an inhibitory modulator of T-cell response. 
B7-H4 is broadly expressed in human peripheral tissues and inducibly expressed 
in immune cells. The expression of B7-H4 has been observed in various types of 
human cancer tissues, and its soluble form has been detected in blood samples 
from cancer patients. However, its precise physiological role is still elusive, 
as its receptor has not been identified and the expression levels are not 
consistent. This paper summarizes the pertinent data on the inhibitory role of 
B7-H4 in antitumor immunity and its association with cancer progression and 
survival in human patients. The paper also discusses the clinical significance 
of investigating B7-H4 as potential markers for cancer diagnosis and prognosis, 
and as therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/695834
PMCID: PMC3195678
PMID: 22013483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Transplant. 2011;2011:418902. doi: 10.1155/2011/418902. Epub 2011 Oct 13.

B7-H4 Pathway in Islet Transplantation and β-Cell Replacement Therapies.

Wang X(1), Hao J, Metzger DL, Ao Z, Meloche M, Verchere CB, Chen L, Ou D, Mui A, 
Warnock GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada 
V5Z 4E3.

Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is a chronic autoimmune disease and characterized by 
absolute insulin deficiency. β-cell replacement by islet cell transplantation 
has been established as a feasible treatment option for T1D. The two main 
obstacles after islet transplantation are alloreactive T-cell-mediated graft 
rejection and recurrence of autoimmune diabetes mellitus in recipients. T cells 
play a central role in determining the outcome of both autoimmune responses and 
allograft survival. B7-H4, a newly identified B7 homolog, plays a key role in 
maintaining T-cell homeostasis by reducing T-cell proliferation and cytokine 
production. The relationship between B7-H4 and allograft survival/autoimmunity 
has been investigated recently in both islet transplantation and the nonobese 
diabetic (NOD) mouse models. B7-H4 protects allograft survival and generates 
donor-specific tolerance. It also prevents the development of autoimmune 
diabetes. More importantly, B7-H4 plays an indispensable role in alloimmunity in 
the absence of the classic CD28/CTLA-4 : B7 pathway, suggesting a 
synergistic/additive effect with other agents such as CTLA-4 on inhibition of 
unwanted immune responses.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/418902
PMCID: PMC3196026
PMID: 22028949


98. Cancer Lett. 2012 Apr 1;317(1):99-105. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2011.11.017.
Epub  2011 Nov 20.

Induced expression of B7-H4 on the surface of lung cancer cell by the 
tumor-associated macrophages: a potential mechanism of immune escape.

Chen C(1), Qu QX, Shen Y, Mu CY, Zhu YB, Zhang XG, Huang JA.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
188 Shizi Street, Suzhou 215006, China.

B7-homolog 4 (B7-H4), a recently identified homolog of B7.1/2 (CD80/86), has 
been described to exert co-stimulatory and immune regulatory functions. We 
investigated the expression and the functional activity of B7-H4 in lung cancer 
in vitro and in vivo. Although a lung cancer cell line constitutively expressed 
B7-H4 mRNA and protein in plasma, primary tumor cell isolated from the 
transplanted lung carcinoma model expressed B7-H4 on the surface. Interestingly, 
in transplanted lung carcinoma model, the expression of membrane-bound B7-H4 in 
tumor cells was increased as prolonging of tumor transformation. Exposure to 
tumor-associated macrophages strongly induced membrane-bound B7-H4 expression on 
the lung cancer cell line. To elucidate the functional significance of lung 
cancer-related B7-H4 expression, we performed co-culture experiments of lung 
cancer cell with allo-reactive T cells. Lung cancer-related B7-H4 was identified 
as a strong inhibitor of T-cell effect. Furthermore, B7-H4 mAb had an ability to 
inhibit tumor growth in vivo. B7-H4 expression may thus significantly influence 
the outcome of T-cell tumor cell interactions and TAM induced membrane-bound 
B7-H4 on the lung cancer cell represents a novel mechanism by which lung cancer 
cells evade immune recognition and destruction.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2011.11.017
PMID: 22108530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Inflammation. 2012 Jun;35(3):1102-12. doi: 10.1007/s10753-011-9417-2.

The expression and anatomical distribution of BTLA and its ligand HVEM in 
rheumatoid synovium.

Shang Y(1), Guo G, Cui Q, Li J, Ruan Z, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Affiliated Hospital of Chifeng University, Inner 
Mongolia 024000, People's Republic of China.

Co-inhibitory signaling from B and T lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA) can suppress 
lymphocyte activation and maintain peripheral tolerance. However, the expression 
and anatomical distribution of BTLA and its ligand, herpesvirus entry mediator 
(HVEM), in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) synovium have not been reported. In this 
study, we analyzed the expression of HVEM and BTLA in RA synovium by 
immunohistochemistry, and our results showed that both factors were observed in 
all four cases of RA samples. At the cellular level, both HVEM and BTLA were 
found on the cell membrane and in the cytoplasm. Fluorescence dual staining 
demonstrated that HVEM was chiefly on CD3(+) T cells, CD68(+) macrophages, and 
to a lesser extent was found on CD31(+) endothelial cells. Similarly, the 
expression of BTLA was observed on infiltrated CD3(+) T cells and CD68(+) 
macrophages. The co-expression of HVEM and BTLA with some members of the B7 
family in these sections was also analyzed, and the results showed that HVEM 
antigen was also found on B7-H3(+) capillaries, while it was absent on B7-H1(+), 
B7-DC(+), B7-H4(+), and Z39Ig(+) cells. Interestingly, BTLA was observed on 
B7-H1(+), B7-H4(+), and HVEM(+) cells in the synovium. The characteristic 
expression and distribution of BTLA/HVEM in the synovium indicated that their 
signaling probably affects the pathogenesis of RA, and a clear understanding of 
their functional roles may further elucidate the pathogenesis of this disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-011-9417-2
PMID: 22179929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. J Invest Dermatol. 2012 Apr;132(4):1239-46. doi: 10.1038/jid.2011.416. Epub
2011  Dec 22.

Regulatory T cells stimulate B7-H1 expression in myeloid-derived suppressor 
cells in ret melanomas.

Fujimura T(1), Ring S, Umansky V, Mahnke K, Enk AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Ruprecht-Karls University of Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany. tfujimura1@mac.com

Myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) are a heterogeneous population of 
cells, and they promote an immunosuppressive environment in tumor-bearing hosts. 
To characterize MDSCs in melanoma, we examined the expression of inhibitory B7 
molecules by CD11b(+)Gr1(+) cells isolated from mice with transplantable ret 
tumors. B7 molecules were expressed on CD11b(+)Gr1(+) cells, which also 
expressed CD124 and inducible nitric oxide synthase, thus verifying their 
relation to MDSCs. In developing melanomas, CD11b(+)Gr1(+) cells express only 
low levels of B7-H1. In contrast, B7-H1 is upregulated in large tumors, and 
functional analysis demonstrates that CD11b(+)Gr-1(+) cells suppress the 
proliferation of CD4(+) T cells through B7-H1. Depletion of regulatory T cells 
(Tregs) significantly downregulated the expression of B7-H1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 on 
MDSCs and reduced tumor growth, indicating a concerted immunosuppressive 
activity of Tregs and MDSCs. No differences in the suppressive function of MDSCs 
between CD25-depleted and non-depleted mice were recorded. Instead, 
tumor-derived MDSCs from Treg-depleted hosts produced less IL-10 and more IFN-γ 
as compared with Treg-harboring mice. These studies indicate that Tregs in 
tumors not only suppress effector T cells directly, but also modify the 
phenotype of tumor-infiltrating CD11b(+) cells to express inhibitory B7-H 
molecules and to produce IL-10.

DOI: 10.1038/jid.2011.416
PMID: 22189788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. PLoS One. 2012;7(1):e28232. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028232. Epub 2012 Jan
4.

B7-H4 Treatment of T Cells Inhibits ERK, JNK, p38, and AKT Activation.

Wang X(1), Hao J, Metzger DL, Ao Z, Chen L, Ou D, Verchere CB, Mui A, Warnock 
GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.

B7-H4 is a newly identified B7 homolog that plays an important role in 
maintaining T-cell homeostasis by inhibiting T-cell proliferation and 
lymphokine-secretion. In this study, we investigated the signal transduction 
pathways inhibited by B7-H4 engagement in mouse T cells. We found that treatment 
of CD3(+) T cells with a B7-H4.Ig fusion protein inhibits anti-CD3 elicited 
T-cell receptor (TCR)/CD28 signaling events, including phosphorylation of the 
MAP kinases, ERK, p38, and JNK. B7-H4.Ig treatment also inhibited the 
phosphorylation of AKT kinase and impaired its kinase activity as assessed by 
the phosphorylation of its endogenous substrate GSK-3. Expression of IL-2 is 
also reduced by B7-H4. In contrast, the phosphorylation state of the TCR 
proximal tyrosine kinases ZAP70 and lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase 
(LCK) are not affected by B7-H4 ligation. These results indicate that B7-H4 
inhibits T-cell proliferation and IL-2 production through interfering with 
activation of ERK, JNK, and AKT, but not of ZAP70 or LCK.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0028232
PMCID: PMC3251556
PMID: 22238573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


102. Acta Histochem. 2012 Nov;114(7):733-43. doi: 10.1016/j.acthis.2011.12.010.
Epub  2012 Feb 1.

The characteristic expression of B7-associated proteins in Langerhans cell 
sarcoma.

Li H(1), Wang C, Guo G, Gao C, Wu Y, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head-Neck Surgery, Xinqiao Hospital, 
PLA, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing 400037, PR China.

Langerhans cell sarcoma (LCS) is a rare malignancy derived from dendritic cells 
of the epidermis that is characterized by cytological atypia, frequent mitoses, 
and aggressive clinical behavior. Cancer-associated B7 molecules including 
B7-H1, B7-DC, B7-H3 and B7-H4 are thought to be involved in the immunoescape of 
cancer cells and to function as prognostic markers. However, the expression and 
distribution of these molecules in LCS have not been described. Here we report 
that all of these molecules were observed in LCS sample sections by 
immunohistochemistry analysis. At the cellular level, they were found on the 
cell membrane and in the cytoplasm. Fluorescence dual staining indicated that 
B7-H1, B7-H3 and B7-H4 were principally associated with Langerin(+) tumor cells. 
More interestingly, B7-H1, B7-H3 and B7-H4 were co-expressed on the same tumor 
cells. Z39Ig, the novel B7-related protein, was also found in the LCS sample 
sections. Fluorescence dual staining showed that Z39Ig was restricted on CD68(+) 
macrophages. Our results suggest that B7-H1, B7-H3 and B7-H4 may be potential 
biomarkers to identify LCS, and a clear understanding of their functional roles 
may further elucidate the pathogenesis of this carcinoma and potentially 
contribute to the development of novel immunotherapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acthis.2011.12.010
PMID: 22305414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Jan 10;92(2):117-8.

[Diagnostic value of soluble B7-H4 in malignant pleural effusion].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu CH(1), Yu LK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nanjing Chest Hospital, Nanjing, China. 
xuchunhua74@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To explore the diagnostic value of soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) in 
tuberculous pleural effusion and malignant pleural effusion.
METHODS: A total of 98 patients of pleural effusion treated in Nanjing Chest 
Hospital from January 2007 to December 2009 were enrolled. The etiologies were 
tuberculous (n = 48) and malignant (n = 50). The levels of sB7-H4 in pleural 
effusion were detected by sandwich enzyme linked immunosorbent assay. The 
rational clinical diagnostic value was established by receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) curves.
RESULTS: The level of sB7-H4 in malignant pleural effusion was significant 
higher than that in tuberculous effusion ((65.7 ± 5.8) vs (28.6 ± 8.7) µg/L, P < 
0.05). The cut-off value of sB7-H4 was 36.5 µg/L for malignant pleural effusion. 
And the rates of sensitivity, specificity and accuracy were 92.0%, 83.3% and 
87.8% respectively.
CONCLUSION: The level of sB7-H4 may be used as a valuable parameter in the 
differentiation of tuberculous from malignant effusion.

PMID: 22490695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2012 Jul;68(1):85-93. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0897.2012.01134.x. Epub 2012 Apr 24.

The immunohistochemical analysis of antigens such as RCAS1 and B7H4 in the 
cervical cancer nest and within the fibroblasts and macrophages infiltrating the 
cancer microenvironment.

Galazka K(1), Opławski M, Windorbska W, Skret-Magierlo J, Koper K, Basta P, Mach 
P, Dutch-Wicherek M, Mazur A, Wicherek L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathomorphology, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: The presence of the aggressive phenotype of the tumor seems to be 
indicated by the local infiltration of cancer cells and by the development of 
metastases in the lymph nodes. This phenotype is related to the intensity of the 
suppressive profile of the tumor microenvironment. The aim of our study has been 
to gather information about the expression of both RCAS1 and B7H4 proteins in 
the macrophages and fibroblasts present within both the microenvironment of 
cervical cancer tumors and the cancer cells present on the front of the cancer 
nest.
METHODS: We analyzed the immunoreactivity levels of such antigens as B7H4 and 
RCAS1 in the macrophages and fibroblasts of the cancer microenvironment and 
within the cancer nest in the tissue samples derived from patients on whom both 
a radical hysterectomy and a lymphadenectomy had been performed following a 
diagnosis of uterine cervical carcinoma. These patients were then divided into 
two subgroups according to the extent of the local and distant advancement of 
the cancer - that is, according to the FIGO stage and the presence or absence of 
lymph node metastases.
RESULTS: RCAS1 immunoreactivity levels on the front of the cancer nest 
statistically significantly increase according to the FIGO stage or the extent 
of the local spread of the disease while B7H4 immunoreactivity levels on the 
tumor front increase in relation to the extent of the distant spread of the 
disease or the presence of lymph nodes metastases.
CONCLUSION: The intensity of the suppressive profile of the cervical cancer 
microenvironment indicated by the presence of both RCAS1 and B7H4 on the front 
of the tumor and in the macrophages and fibroblasts infiltrating the cancer 
stroma seems to correlate with the extent of both the local and distant 
advancement of the disease.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0897.2012.01134.x
PMID: 22530960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Front Immunol. 2012 Mar 19;3:47. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2012.00047. eCollection 
2012.

The role of coinhibitory signaling pathways in transplantation and tolerance.

McGrath MM(1), Najafian N.

Author information:
(1)Transplantation Research Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Children's 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School Boston, MA, USA.

Negative costimulatory molecules, acting through so-called inhibitory pathways, 
play a crucial role in the control of T cell responses. This negative "second 
signal" opposes T cell receptor activation and leads to downregulation of T cell 
proliferation and promotes antigen specific tolerance. Much interest has focused 
upon these pathways in recent years as a method to control detrimental 
alloresponses and promote allograft tolerance. However, recent experimental data 
highlights the complexity of negative costimulatory pathways in alloimmunity. 
Varying effects are observed from molecules expressed on donor and recipient 
tissues and also depending upon the activation status of immune cells involved. 
There appears to be significant overlap and redundancy within these systems, 
rendering this a challenging area to understand and exploit therapeutically. In 
this article, we will review the literature at the current time regarding the 
major negative costimulation pathways including CTLA-4:B7, PD-1:PD-L1/PD-L2 and 
PD-L1:B7-1, B7-H3, B7-H4, HVEM:BTLA/CD160, and TIM-3:Galectin-9. We aim to 
outline the role of these pathways in alloimmunity and discuss their potential 
applications for tolerance induction in transplantation.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2012.00047
PMCID: PMC3342378
PMID: 22566929


106. J Int Med Res. 2012;40(2):497-506. doi: 10.1177/147323001204000211.

Enhanced T cell immunity by B7-H4 downregulation in nonsmall-cell lung cancer 
cell lines.

Sun SQ(1), Jiang CG, Lin Y, Jin YL, Huang PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Zhongda Hospital, Southeast University, 
Nanjing, China.

OBJECTIVES: T cell immunity plays a critical role in host immune surveillance of 
tumour cell growth and metastatic spread. This study used small hairpin 
(sh)RNA-mediated gene silencing to target VTCN1 (B7-H4) expression in a 
nonsmall-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell line (A549) and evaluated the effects on 
T cell immune activity using an in vitro coculture system.
METHODS: VTCN1-specific shRNA-expressing plasmid was transfected into A549 
cells. Mock transfected and empty plasmid-transfected A549 cells served as 
controls. VTCN1 expression in A549 cells was determined by reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for VTCN1 mRNA and Western 
blotting for B7-H4 protein. Transfected A549 cells were cocultured with Jurkat 
cells. Jurkat cells were examined for proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle 
distribution and intracellular cytokine mRNA and protein levels.
RESULTS: VTCN1-specific shRNA efficiently knocked down VTCN1 mRNA and B7-H4 
protein levels in A549 cells. This downregulation led to enhanced Jurkat cell 
proliferation, decreased apoptosis, stimulated cell cycle progression and 
elevated production of interferon-γ, interleukin (IL)-10 and IL-2.
CONCLUSIONS: B7-H4 negatively regulates T cell-mediated antitumour immunity in 
NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1177/147323001204000211
PMID: 22613410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Jun;28(6):643-6.

[Expression of the costimulatory molecule BTLA in synovial tissues from 
rheumatoid arthritis patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Shang YJ(1), Cui QF, Li JL, Guo GN, Zhu WY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Chifeng University, Inner Mongolia, Chifeng, 
China.

AIM: To detect the expression of B and T lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA) antigen in 
synovial tissues from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients.
METHODS: The expression and distribution of BTLA antigen was analyzed by 
immunohistochemistry. Moreover, fluorescence double-staining was used to further 
identify the cell types expressing BTLA.
RESULTS: Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that a great deal of BTLA 
positive cells were found in RA synovium, and fluorescence double-staining 
further demonstrated that BTLA positive cells were CD3(+); T cells, CD68(+); 
macrophages, and occasionally CD31(+); endothelial cells. In contrast to other 
members of B7 superfamily, the expression of BTLA was also found on B7-H1(+);, 
B7-H4(+); and HVEM(+); cells, while it was absence on B7-DC(+); cells as well as 
B7-H3(+); cells.
CONCLUSION: The expression of BTLA has been observed on the surface of several 
kinds of cells within synovial tissues of RA patients, which indicates this 
signal might be involved in the regulation of local T cell activation and the 
pathogenesis of RA.

PMID: 22691359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Immunol. 2012 Sep 15;189(6):3054-63. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1200701. Epub
2012  Aug 1.

Tissue-expressed B7x affects the immune response to and outcome of lethal 
pulmonary infection.

Hofmeyer KA(1), Scandiuzzi L, Ghosh K, Pirofski LA, Zang X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

B7x (B7-H4 or B7S1), a member of the B7 family, inhibits in vitro T cell 
proliferation and cytokine production by binding to an unidentified receptor on 
activated T cells, but its in vivo function remains largely unclear. We show 
that B7x protein was expressed in epithelial cells of the lung, but not in 
lymphoid tissues. To investigate the role of B7x in the lung, we determined the 
susceptibility of B7x-deficient (B7x(-/-)) mice to a lethal pulmonary infection 
with Streptococcus pneumoniae. B7x(-/-), but not B7-H3-deficient, mice were 
significantly more resistant to S. pneumoniae pulmonary infection than their 
wild-type (Wt) counterparts. B7x(-/-) mice had significantly lower bacterial 
burdens and levels of inflammatory cytokines in lungs as early as 12 h 
postinfection. They also had milder immunopathology that was localized in 
alveolar spaces, whereas Wt mice had severe inflammation that was perivascular. 
Control of infection in B7x(-/-) mice was associated with a marked increase in 
activated CD4 and CD8 T cells and fewer neutrophils in lungs, whereas the 
susceptible Wt mice had the opposite cellular profile. In B7x(-/-)Rag1(-/-) mice 
that lack T cells, reduction in bacterial burden was no longer observed. Control 
of S. pneumoniae and the increased survival observed was specific to the lung, 
because systemically infected B7x(-/-) mice were not resistant to infection. 
These data indicate that lung-expressed B7x negatively regulates T cells, and 
that in its absence, in B7x(-/-) mice, an enhanced T cell response contributed 
to reduced lethality in a pulmonary infection model with S. pneumoniae.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1200701
PMCID: PMC3962726
PMID: 22855708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Islets. 2012 Jul-Aug;4(4):284-95. doi: 10.4161/isl.21239. Epub 2012 Jul 1.

Blockade of both B7-H4 and CTLA-4 co-signaling pathways enhances mouse islet 
allograft survival.

Wang X(1), Hao J, Metzger DL, Mui A, Lee IF, Akhoundsadegh N, Chen CL, Ou D, Ao 
Z, Verchere CB, Warnock GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Costimulation blockade is an effective way to prevent allograft rejection. In 
this study, we tested the efficacy of two negative co-signaling molecules in 
protecting islet allograft function. We used local expression of B7-H4 by 
adenoviral transduction of islets (Ad-B7-H4) and systemic administration of 
CTLA-4.Ig to investigate the outcomes of allograft survival. Five groups of 
streptozotocin-induced diabetic C57BL/6 mice received 400 islets each from 
BALB/c donors. The groups consisted of control (G1); CTLA-4.Ig (G2); Ad-LacZ 
(G3); Ad-B7-H4 (G4); and Ad-B7-H4 and CTLA-4.Ig combined (G5). G1 and G3 
developed graft failure on average of two weeks. G2, G4 and G5 survived for 43.8 
± 34.8, 54.7 ± 31.2 and 77.8 ± 21.5 d, respectively. Activated T and B cells in 
the lymph nodes were significantly controlled by CTLA-4.Ig treatment. 
Significantly reduced infiltrates were also detected in the allografts of G2 
compared with G1. By contrast, B7-H4 significantly inhibited Th1-associated 
IFN-gamma secretion in the early stage and increased Foxp3 (+) T cells in the 
long-term surviving allografts. Our study suggests that CTLA-4 and B7-H4 inhibit 
alloimmune responses through distinct mechanisms, and that combination therapy 
which activates two negative co-signaling pathways can further enhance islet 
allograft survival.

DOI: 10.4161/isl.21239
PMCID: PMC3496653
PMID: 22878670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Gynecol Oncol. 2012 Nov;127(2):420-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.08.017. Epub
 2012 Aug 19.

A review of B7-H3 and B7-H4 immune molecules and their role in ovarian cancer.

Fauci JM(1), Straughn JM Jr, Ferrone S, Buchsbaum DJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
USA. janelle.fauci@gmail.com

A number of members of the B7 superfamily of ligands have been implicated in 
tumor immunogenicity and cancer development. Two of these recently characterized 
ligands, B7-H4 and B7-H3, have been linked to ovarian tumors. B7-H4 is 
consistently overexpressed in ovarian tumor specimens, and its tissue and serum 
levels have been found to be a potential biomarker for ovarian cancer, either 
alone or in combination with CA125. More recently, B7-H3 has been found to be 
overexpressed in a large series of ovarian cancer tumor specimens and similar to 
other types of carcinomas, B7-H3 overexpression has been correlated with poor 
survival. On the basis of the results obtained by knocking down B7-H3 protein 
using siRNA, researchers have suggested that blocking the action of B7-H3 could 
reduce tumor growth, metastatic potential, and improve survival. Because siRNA 
knock-down is not an ideal clinical therapeutic vehicle, additional studies 
using antibody-mediated suppression of the B7-H3 protein are necessary to fully 
evaluate the clinical potential of this molecule as a therapeutic target.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2012.08.017
PMID: 22910694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Immunol. 2012 Oct 15;189(8):4165-74. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1201241. Epub
2012  Sep 12.

B7x in the periphery abrogates pancreas-specific damage mediated by 
self-reactive CD8 T cells.

Lee JS(1), Scandiuzzi L, Ray A, Wei J, Hofmeyer KA, Abadi YM, Loke P, Lin J, 
Yuan J, Serreze DV, Allison JP, Zang X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

B7x (B7-H4 or B7S1) is the seventh member of the B7 family, and its in vivo 
function remains largely unknown. Despite new genetic data linking the B7x gene 
with autoimmune diseases, how exactly it contributes to peripheral tolerance and 
autoimmunity is unclear. In this study, we showed that B7x protein was not 
detected on APCs or T cells in both human and mice, which is unique in the B7 
family. Because B7x protein is expressed in some peripheral cells such as 
pancreatic β cells, we used a CD8 T cell-mediated diabetes model (AI4αβ) in 
which CD8 T cells recognize an endogenous self-Ag, and found that mice lacking 
B7x developed more severe diabetes than control AI4αβ mice. Conversely, mice 
overexpressing B7x in the β cells (Rip-B7xAI4αβ) were diabetes free. 
Furthermore, adoptive transfer of effector AI4αβ CD8 T cells induced diabetes in 
control mice, but not in Rip-B7xAI4αβ mice. Mechanistic studies revealed that 
pathogenic effector CD8 T cells were capable of migrating to the pancreas but 
failed to robustly destroy tissue when encountering local B7x in Rip-B7xAI4αβ 
mice. Although AI4αβ CD8 T cells in Rip-B7xAI4αβ and AI4αβ mice showed similar 
cytotoxic function, cell death, and global gene expression profiles, these cells 
had greater proliferation in AI4αβ mice than in RIP-B7xAI4αβ mice. These results 
suggest that B7x in nonlymphoid organs prevents peripheral autoimmunity 
partially through inhibiting proliferation of tissue-specific CD8 T cells, and 
that local overexpression of B7x on pancreatic β cells is sufficient to abolish 
CD8 T cell-induced diabetes.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1201241
PMCID: PMC3466330
PMID: 22972920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Pathol Int. 2012 Oct;62(10):665-74. doi: 10.1111/j.1440-1827.2012.02856.x.

The characteristic expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in liver biopsies from patients 
with HBV-related acute-on-chronic liver failure.

Guo G(1), Cao D, Xu H, Ruan Z, Fei L, Xie Z, Wu Y, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency, South-West Hospital, Third Military Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.

Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a major public health problem, and HBV-related 
acute-on-chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF) has an extremely poor prognosis due to 
a lack of effective treatments. B7-H3 and B7-H4 are two novel members of the B7 
superfamily that are actively involved in regulating the pathogenesis of 
infectious diseases. However, the intrahepatic expression of both members in 
HBV-ACLF patients has yet to be described. In this study, we analyzed the 
expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in HBV-ACLF biopsies by immunohistochemistry. Our 
results showed that both members were observed in all HBV-ACLF samples, and 
their expression was chiefly observed on infiltrating inflammatory cells and the 
damaged bile ducts. Immunofluorescence double staining showed that B7-H4 was 
expressed chiefly on CD3(+) T cells, CD68(+) macrophages, CK-18(+) bile ducts, 
and CD31(+) endothelial cells, while B7-H3 was found on all cell types detected. 
The expression of the programmed death (PD)-1 ligands, PD-L1 and PD-L2, was also 
detected in these liver tissues and they were found to be co-expressed with 
B7-H3 and B7-H4. These results suggest that the B7-family signaling is most 
likely to affect the pathogenesis of this disease, and a clear understanding of 
their functional roles may further elucidate the disease process.

© 2012 The Authors. Pathology International © 2012 Japanese Society of Pathology 
and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1827.2012.02856.x
PMID: 23005593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2013 Feb;69(2):180-7. doi: 10.1111/aji.12031. Epub 2012
Oct  16.

The expressions of co-stimulatory molecules are altered on putative 
antigen-presenting cells in cord blood.

Darmochwal-Kolarz D(1), Serafin A, Tabarkiewicz J, Kolarz B, Rolinski J, 
Oleszczuk J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Perinatology, Medical University of Lublin, 
Lublin, Poland. dorotak@mp.pl

PROBLEM: The aim of our study was to estimate the expressions of both B7-H1 and 
B7-H4 as well as CD200 and CD200R co-stimulatory molecules on immature myeloid 
and lymphoid dendritic cells, B CD19(+) lymphocytes and monocytes in umbilical 
cord blood of healthy neonates and in peripheral blood of healthy adults.
METHOD OF STUDY: Thirty-nine healthy full-term neonates from physiological 
single pregnancies and 27 healthy adults were included in the study. The 
expressions of B7-H1, B7-H4, CD200, CD200R antigens were estimated using flow 
cytometry. Statistical analysis was performed using a non-parametric 
Mann-Whitney U-test and parametric Wilcoxon's test.
RESULTS: The expressions of B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules on immature BDCA-1(+) 
myeloid dendritic cells were significantly lower in umbilical cord blood of 
healthy neonates when compared with those cells in peripheral blood of healthy 
adults (P < 0.0001). Furthermore, the suppression of B7-H4 molecule on BDCA-2(+) 
lymphoid dendritic cells was observed in cord blood of healthy neonates when 
compared with peripheral blood of healthy adults (P < 0.02). The expressions of 
CD200 antigen on BDCA-1(+) cells, CD200R antigen on BDCA-2(+) cells and CD200R 
antigen on B CD19(+) cells were significantly lower in cord blood of healthy 
neonates. On the other hand, the expressions of CD200 and CD200R as well as 
B7-H4 co-stimulatory molecules on CD14(+) cells were significantly higher in 
cord blood when compared with peripheral blood.
CONCLUSION: The increased percentages of CD14(+) monocytes with the expressions 
of CD200 and CD200R as well as B7-H4 co-stimulatory molecules can suggest the 
increased immunomodulatory properties of neonatal monocytes in cord blood.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/aji.12031
PMID: 23066977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Diagn Pathol. 2012 Oct 15;7:142. doi: 10.1186/1746-1596-7-142.

The intrahepatic expression and distribution of BTLA and its ligand HVEM in 
patients with HBV-related acute-on-chronic liver failure.

Xu H(1), Cao D, Guo G, Ruan Z, Wu Y, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunology, PLA, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing 
400038, People's Republic of China. yongwench@163.com

OBJECTIVE: It has been demonstrated that signals from the inhibitory receptor B 
and T lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA) are involved in regulating the pathogenesis 
of infectious diseases. However, the expression and anatomical distribution of 
BTLA and its ligand, the herpes virus entry mediator (HVEM), have not yet been 
determined in cases of HBV-related acute-on-chronic liver failure (HBV-ACLF) 
patients.
METHODS: In this study, the expression of BTLA and HVEM in liver tissues from 
HBV-ACLF, chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients and healthy individuals was 
analyzed by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: The results of this analysis demonstrated that both molecules were 
observed in the HBV-ACLF samples and that their expression was chiefly in the 
infiltrating inflammatory cells and the damaged bile ducts. However, they were 
absent in liver sections from CHB patients and healthy controls. 
Immunofluorescence double-staining indicated that BTLA was found on CK-18+ 
epithelial cells, CD31+ endothelial cells, CD68+ macrophages, CD56+ NK cells, 
CD16+ monocytes, CD3+ , CD8+ T cells, and Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (Treg). By 
contrast, HVEM expression was restricted to CK18+ epithelial cells and CD68+ 
macrophages. Moreover, the expression of several members of the B7 superfamily, 
including PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3 and B7-H4, was also detected in these liver 
tissues, and these proteins were co-expressed with HVEM. Interestingly, the 
expression of fibrinogen-like protein 2 (FGL2), a virus-induced procoagulant 
molecule, was also found in liver sections from HBV-ACLF, this molecule also 
co-expresses with BTLA and HVEM.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that BTLA-HVEM signaling is likely to affect 
the pathogenesis of HBV-ACLF, a clear understanding of the functional roles of 
these proteins should further elucidate the disease process.
VIRTUAL SLIDES: The virtual slide(s) for this article can be found here: 
http://www.diagnosticpathology.diagnomx.eu/vs/8080806838149123.

DOI: 10.1186/1746-1596-7-142
PMCID: PMC3488509
PMID: 23067542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Tissue Cell. 2013 Feb;45(1):32-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tice.2012.09.002. Epub 2012
Oct  27.

Human placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cells suppress T cell proliferation and 
support the culture expansion of cord blood CD34⁺ cells: a comparison with human 
bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells.

Luan X(1), Li G, Wang G, Wang F, Lin Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai 264003, China. 
xyluan@sohu.com

Human placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hPMSCs) have been shown to 
possess immunosuppressive effects against T cells and support the expansion of 
hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells (HSPCs) from umbilical cord blood (UCB). 
However, the characteristics of hPMSCs compared with human bone marrow-derived 
mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs) are not fully understood. Here, we show that 
hPMSCs have similar regulatory effects on T cell activation, proliferation and 
cytokine secretion as hBMSCs and demonstrate that PDL1 and B7H4, negative 
co-stimulatory molecules, are involved in the T cell immunosuppressive 
activities of hPMSCs and hBMSCs, respectively. hPMSCs efficiently enhanced the 
expansion of CD34⁺ cells from UCB compared with hBMSCs. Furthermore, hPMSCs 
maintained the expression of adhesion molecules (CD11a, CD44 and CD49e) in CD34⁺ 
cells. Similar effects were observed for both hPMSCs and hBMSCs on CD34⁺ cell 
chemotaxis and cytokine production, such as SDF-1α, IL-6 and SCF. Therefore, 
hPMSCs may be an ideal alternative source of hBMSCs for basic research and 
clinical applications, which may be significant in future efforts to explore the 
potential clinical utility of hPMSCs.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tice.2012.09.002
PMID: 23107983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Onkologie. 2012;35(11):700-5. doi: 10.1159/000343638. Epub 2012 Oct 22.

Expression of costimulatory molecule B7-H4 in human malignant tumors.

Zheng X(1), Li XD, Wu CP, Lu BF, Jiang JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou, China.

Costimulatory molecule B7-H4, a member of the B7 family, negatively regulates 
the immune response of T cells through inhibiting their proliferation, cytokine 
production and cell cycle. The overexpression of B7-H4 plays an important role 
in initiation, progression and regression of tumors by promoting malignant 
transformation of epithelial cells and protecting epithelial cells from anoikis. 
B7-H4 expression in malignant tumors is useful for clinical diagnosis, and may 
provide a novel molecular target for cancer treatment.

DOI: 10.1159/000343638
PMID: 23147549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Transplantation. 2013 Jan 15;95(1):94-9. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318277229d.

Endogenous expression of B7-H4 improves long-term murine islet allograft 
survival.

Wang X(1), Hao J, Metzger DL, Mui A, Lee IF, Akhoundsadegh N, Ao Z, Chen L, Ou 
D, Verchere CB, Warnock GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Allograft rejection is one of the main obstacles for islet 
transplantation. B7-H4 plays a key role in maintaining T-cell homeostasis by 
reducing T-cell proliferation and cytokine production. In this study, we 
investigated whether the endogenous expression of B7-H4 in β cells from B7-H4 
transgenic mice enhances islet allograft survival.
METHODS: B7-H4 transgenic C57BL/6 (B6) mice (RIP.B7-H4) were developed by 
inserting the entire B7-H4 open reading frame under the rat insulin promoter 
(RIP). B7-H4 protein expression was examined by flow cytometric analysis and 
immunohistochemical staining. Islet allograft survival was investigated in 
streptozotocin-induced diabetic recipient BALB/c (H-2d) mice transplanted with 
400 islets from RIP.B7-H4 (H-2b) mice under the kidney capsule. The recipient 
control group received islets from wild-type B6 donors.
RESULTS: B7-H4 protein was significantly up-regulated in isolated islets from 
RIP.B7-H4 compared with wild-type B6 mice (56%±23% vs. 3%±1.2%). B7-H4 was 
coexpressed with insulin, but not glucagon, suggesting that B7-H4 is expressed 
in a β-cell-specific manner. Recipient BALB/c mice transplanted with RIP.B7-H4 
islets established euglycemia for 42.3±18.4 days (mean±SD; n=9) compared with 
controls at 23.1±7.8 days (mean±SD; n=12; P<0.004, log-rank test).
CONCLUSIONS: The endogenous expression of B7-H4 in donor β cells from transgenic 
mice prolongs islet allograft survival, confirming the negative role of B7-H4 in 
regulating alloreactive T-cell responses.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318277229d
PMID: 23192157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Otolaryngol Pol. 2012 Nov-Dec;66(6):413-8. doi: 10.1016/j.otpol.2012.06.005.
 Epub 2012 Jun 9.

[The assessment of selected molecules belonging to B7 family on the mature 
dendritic cells in laryngeal cancer patients].

[Article in Polish]

Klatka J(1), Grywalska E, Wasiak M, Wdowiak P, Andrzejczak A, Trzaskowska E, 
Roliński J.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Klinika Otolaryngologii i Onkologii Laryngologicznej Uniwersytetu 
Medycznego w Lublinie, Poland.

B7-H1, B7-H2 and B7-H4 molecules play various roles in the adaptive immune 
system and are broadly expressed on many cells, especially those localized in 
cancer tissue. The aim of the study was to assess the surface expression of 
B7-H1, B7-H2 and B7-H4 molecules on the mature dendritic cells (DC) generated 
from peripheral blood monocytes of laryngeal cancer patients and healthy donors.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty-four male patients treated surgically for squamous 
cell carcinoma of the larynx were included in the study. Peripheral blood from 
twelve healthy male donors was used as a control. Mononuclear cells were 
separated from all individuals by density gradient centrifugation, incubated 
with anti-CD14 microbeads, and passed through MACS separation columns. The CD14 
positive cell population was used to prepare monocyte derived DC. Laryngeal 
cancer tissue was obtained from patients during surgical treatment and 
homogenized to prepare tumor cell lysates for further stimulation. We evaluated 
with the use of flow cytometry method the percentage of cells with an expression 
and mean fluorescent intensity (MFI) of surface markers, such as: CD83, B7-H1, 
B7-H2, B7-H4.
RESULTS: Our study revealed that the percentage of mature dendritic cells, 
stimulated with autologous tumor cell lysates, with the expression of B7-H1 
molecule in patients was lower than in healthy donors (61.81 ± 25.58% vs 93.02 ± 
4.63%, p=0.007). In laryngeal cancer patients, the percentage of CD83+/B7-H2+ 
cells was higher than in healthy individuals (18.32 ± 10.74% vs 2.89 ± 0.43%, 
p=0.019).
CONCLUSIONS: There is a relation between the presence of laryngeal cancer and 
the expression of B7 family molecules.

Copyright © 2012 Polish Otorhinolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery Society. 
Published by Elsevier Urban & Partner Sp. z.o.o. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otpol.2012.06.005
PMID: 23200563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Blood. 2013 Jan 31;121(5):734-44. doi: 10.1182/blood-2012-10-385591. Epub
2012  Dec 6.

The role of B7 family molecules in hematologic malignancy.

Greaves P(1), Gribben JG.

Author information:
(1)Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary University of London, London, United 
Kingdom.

The B7 family consists of structurally related, cell-surface proteins that 
regulate immune responses by delivering costimulatory or coinhibitory signals 
through their ligands. Eight family members have been identified to date 
including CD80 (B7-1), CD86 (B7-2), CD274 (programmed cell death-1 ligand 
[PD-L1]), CD273 (programmed cell death-2 ligand [PD-L2]), CD275 (inducible 
costimulator ligand [ICOS-L]), CD276 (B7-H3), B7-H4, and B7-H6. B7 ligands are 
expressed on both lymphoid and nonlymphoid tissues. The importance of the B7 
family in regulating immune responses is clear from their demonstrated role in 
the development of immunodeficiency and autoimmune diseases. Manipulation of the 
signals delivered by B7 ligands shows great potential in the treatment of 
cancers including leukemias and lymphomas and in regulating allogeneic T-cell 
responses after stem cell transplantation.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2012-10-385591
PMCID: PMC3563361
PMID: 23223433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Mol Histol. 2013 Apr;44(2):213-20. doi: 10.1007/s10735-012-9475-2. Epub
2012  Dec 21.

Expression and anatomical distribution of TIM-containing molecules in Langerhans 
cell sarcoma.

Li J(1), Cao D, Guo G, Wu Y, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunology, PLA, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing 
400038, People's Republic of China.

Signals from the T cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain (TIM)-containing 
molecules have been demonstrated to be involved in regulating the progress of 
carcinoma. However, the expression and anatomical distribution of TIMs in 
Langerhans cell sarcoma (LCS), which is a rare malignancy derived from dendritic 
cells of the epidermis, has yet to be determined. In this study, the expression 
of TIM-1, TIM-3 and TIM-4 in LCS samples were detected by immunohistochemistry. 
Our results showed that these three molecules were found in LCS sections. At the 
cellular level, these molecules were found on the cell membrane and in the 
cytoplasm. Immunofluorescence double-staining demonstrated that these TIMs were 
co-expressed with Langerin, a potential biomarker for detecting LCS. In 
addition, TIM-1 was also expressed on CD68(+) macrophages and CK-18(+) 
epithelial cells, while TIM-3 and TIM-4 were expressed on all cell types 
investigated, including CD3(+)T cells, CD68(+) macrophages, CD11c(+) dendritic 
cells, CD16(+) NK Cells, CD31(+) endothelial cells and CK-18(+) epithelial 
cells. Interestingly, TIMs were also co-expressed with some members of the B7 
superfamily, including B7-H1, B7-H3 and B7-H4 on sarcoma cells. Our results 
clearly showed the characteristic expression and anatomical distribution of TIMs 
in LCS, and a clear understanding of their functional roles may further 
elucidate the pathogenesis of this carcinoma and potentially contribute to the 
development of novel immunotherapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10735-012-9475-2
PMID: 23264111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Oct 23;92(39):2775-7.

[B7-H4 expression of salivary gland and sera in patients with primary Sjogren's 
syndrome].

[Article in Chinese]

Yu DL(1), Li XM, Wang XM, Wang XQ, Li XP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology & Immunology, Affiliated Anhui Provincial 
Hospital, Anhui Medical University, Hefei 230001, China.

OBJECTIVE: To detect the expression of B7-H4 in salivary gland and sera in 
patients with primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS).
METHODS: A total of 40 pSS patients were referred to our department from June 
2009 to January 2011. Immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry were used to 
detect the expression of B7-H4 in salivary gland from pSS patients and disease 
controls. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to detect soluble 
B7-H4 of serum from pSS patients and healthy donors.
RESULTS: Immunohistological staining revealed that B7-H4 antigen was restricted 
to tubular epithelium. The B7-H4 positive expression of tubules in salivary 
gland biopsies from pSS patients (18 ± 14)% were lower than that of controls (85 
± 13)% (P < 0.05). Flow cytometry revealed that the B7-H4 expression of cell 
suspensions from salivary gland from pSS patients (42 ± 21)% were lower than 
that of controls (48 ± 22)% (P < 0.01). And the serum level of soluble B7-H4 
detected in pSS patients (49 ± 31)µg/L significantly decreased than that in 
healthy donors (71 ± 27) µg/L (P < 0.05) and positively correlated with saliva 
and tear flow rates (P < 0.01) respectively.
CONCLUSION: The expression of B7-H4 molecule may play some roles in the 
progression of pSS. And a further understanding of its mechanism helps to 
elucidate the pathogenesis of pSS.

PMID: 23290167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Oncogene. 2013 Nov 14;32(46):5347-58. doi: 10.1038/onc.2012.600. Epub 2013
Jan  14.

The costimulatory molecule B7-H4 promote tumor progression and cell 
proliferation through translocating into nucleus.

Zhang L(1), Wu H, Lu D, Li G, Sun C, Song H, Li J, Zhai T, Huang L, Hou C, Wang 
W, Zhou B, Chen S, Lu B, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)1] Jiangsu Stem Cell Key Laboratory, Institute of Medical Biotechnology, 
Medical College of Soochow University, Suzhou, China [2] Department of Pharmacy, 
College of Pharmaceutical Science, Soochow University, Suzhou, China.

B7-H4, a member of B7 family, is a transmembrane protein and inhibits T-cells 
immunity. However, in a variety of tumor cells, B7-H4 was detected predominantly 
in intracellular compartments with unknown mechanism and functions. In this 
study, we analyzed B7-H4 expression and subcellular distribution by 
immunohistochemistry in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) tissues. B7-H4 protein was 
detected on the membrane, in the cytosol and/or in the nucleus in tumor tissues. 
The membrane and nuclear expression of B7-H4 was significantly correlated with 
the tumor stages of RCC. Moreover, the membrane localization of B7-H4 was 
inversely correlated with the intensity of tumor infiltrates lymphocyte (TILs), 
whereas no association was observed between nuclear expression of B7-H4 and the 
density of TILs status. We further identified that B7-H4 is a 
cytoplasmic-nuclear shuttling protein containing a functional nuclear 
localization sequence (NLS) motif. A point mutation of B7-H4 NLS motif blocked 
the leptomycin B -induced nuclear accumulation of B7-H4. HEK293 cells stably 
expressing B7-H4 NLS mutant exhibited more potent inhibition in T-cell 
proliferation and cytokine production through increasing its surface expression 
compared with wild-type B7-H4 transfected cells owing to their increased surface 
expression. Most importantly, overexpression of wild-type B7-H4 in HEK293 cells 
enhanced tumor cell proliferation in vitro and tumorigenicity in vivo, promoted 
G1/S phase transition. The regulation of cell cycle by wild-type B7-H4 was 
partialy due to upregulation of Cyclin D 1 and Cyclin E. A mutation of B7-H4 NLS 
motif abolished the B7-H4-mediated cell proliferation and cell cycle regulation. 
Furthermore, B7-H4 wild-type confers chemoresistance activity to RCC cell lines 
including Caki-1 and ACHN. Our study provides a new insight into the functional 
implication of B7-H4 in its subcellular localization.

DOI: 10.1038/onc.2012.600
PMCID: PMC3898118
PMID: 23318460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Chin J Cancer. 2013 Dec;32(12):653-60. doi: 10.5732/cjc.012.10228. Epub 2013
Jan  18.

B7-H4 expression is elevated in human U251 glioma stem-like cells and is 
inducible in monocytes cultured with U251 stem-like cell conditioned medium.

Mo LJ(1), Ye HX, Mao Y, Yao Y, Zhang JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Second Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310009, P. R. China. 
zjm135@vip.sina.com, yu_yao@fudan.edu.cn.

Previous studies indicated that B7-H4, the youngest B7 family, negatively 
regulates T cell-mediated immunity and is significantly overexpressed in many 
human tumors. Tumor stem cells are purported to play a role in tumor renewal and 
resistance to radiation and chemotherapy. However, the link between B7-H4 and 
tumor stem cells is unclear. In this study, we investigated B7-H4 expression in 
the medium of human glioma U251 cell cultures. Immunofluorescence results showed 
that U251 cells cultured in serum-free medium (supplemented with 2% B27, 20 
ng/mL epidermal growth factor, 20 ng/mL basic fibroblast growth factor) 
maintained stem-like cell characteristics, including expression of stem cell 
marker CD133 and the neural progenitor cell markers nestin and SOX2. In 
contrast, U251 cells cultured in serum-containing medium highly expressed 
differentiation marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. Flow cytometry analysis 
showed serum-free medium-cultured U251 cells expressed higher intracellular 
B7-H4 than serum-containing medium-cultured U251 cells (24%-35% vs. 8%-11%, P < 
0.001). Immunofluorescence in purified monocytes from normal human peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells revealed moderate expression of B7-H4 after stimulation 
with conditioned medium from U251 cells cultured in serum-containing medium. 
Moreover, conditioned medium from U251 stem-like cells had a significant 
stimulation effect on B7-H4 expression compared with serum-containing 
conditioned medium (P < 0.01). Negative costimulatory molecule B7-H4 was 
preferentially expressed in U251 stem-like cells, and conditioned medium from 
these cells more effectively induced monocytes to express B7-H4 than conditioned 
medium from U251 cells cultured in the presence of serum. Our results show that 
U251 stem-like cells may play a more crucial role in tumor immunoloregulation 
with high expression of B7-H4.

DOI: 10.5732/cjc.012.10228
PMCID: PMC3870849
PMID: 23327799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. BioDrugs. 2013 Feb;27(1):1-13. doi: 10.1007/s40259-012-0001-6.

Targeting the B7 family of co-stimulatory molecules: successes and challenges.

Podojil JR(1), Miller SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology and Interdepartmental Immunobiology 
Center, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Tarry 6-718, 303 
E. Chicago Ave, Chicago, IL, 60611, USA.

As more patient data is cross-referenced with animal models of disease, the 
primary focus on T(h)1 autoreactive effector cell function in autoimmune 
diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis, has shifted 
towards the role of T(h)17 autoreactive effector cells and the ability of 
regulatory T cells (T(reg)) to modulate the pro-inflammatory autoimmune 
response. Therefore, the currently favored hypothesis is that a delicate balance 
between T(h)1/17 effector cells and T(reg) cell function is critical in the 
regulation of inflammatory autoimmune disease. An intensive area of research 
with regard to the T(h)1/17:T(reg) cell balance is the utilization of blockade 
and/or ligation of various co-stimulatory or co-inhibitory molecules, 
respectively, during ongoing disease to skew the immune response toward a more 
tolerogenic/regulatory state. Currently, FDA-approved therapies for multiple 
sclerosis patients are all aimed at the suppression of immune cell function. The 
other favored method of treatment is a modulation or deletion of autoreactive 
immune cells via short-term blockade of activating co-stimulatory receptors via 
treatment with fusion proteins such as CTLA4-Ig and CTLA4-FasL. Based on the 
initial success of CTLA4-Ig, there are additional fusion proteins that are 
currently under development. Examples of the more recently identified B7/CD28 
family members are PD-L1, PD-L2, inducible co-stimulatory molecule-ligand 
(ICOS-L), B7-H3, and B7-H4, all of which may emerge as potential fusion protein 
therapeutics, each with unique, yet often overlapping functions. The expression 
of both stimulatory and inhibitory B7 molecules seems to play an essential role 
in modulating immune cell function through a variety of mechanisms, which is 
supported by findings that suggest each B7 molecule has developed its own 
indispensable niche in the immune system. As more data are generated, the 
diagnostic and therapeutic potential of the above B7 family-member-derived 
fusion proteins becomes ever more apparent. Besides defining the biology of 
these B7/CD28 family members in vivo, additional difficulty in the development 
of these therapies lies in maintaining the normal immune functions of 
recognition and reaction to non-self-antigens following viral or bacterial 
infection in the patient. Further complicating the clinical translation of these 
therapies, the mechanism of action identified for a particular reagent may 
depend upon the method of immune-cell activation and the subset of immune cells 
targeted in the study.

DOI: 10.1007/s40259-012-0001-6
PMCID: PMC3653133
PMID: 23329394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. J Immunol. 2013 Apr 1;190(7):3806-14. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1202439. Epub
2013  Mar 1.

Host b7x promotes pulmonary metastasis of breast cancer.

Abadi YM(1), Jeon H, Ohaegbulam KC, Scandiuzzi L, Ghosh K, Hofmeyer KA, Lee JS, 
Ray A, Gravekamp C, Zang X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

B7x (B7-H4 or B7S1) is an inhibitory member of the B7 family of T cell 
costimulation. It is expressed in low levels in healthy peripheral tissues, such 
as the lung epithelium, but is overexpressed in a variety of human cancers with 
negative clinical associations, including metastasis. However, the function of 
B7x in the context of cancer, whether expressed on cancer cells or on 
surrounding "host" tissues, has not been elucidated in vivo. We used the 4T1 
metastatic breast cancer model and B7x knockout (B7x (-/-)) mice to investigate 
the effect of host tissue-expressed B7x on cancer. We found that 4T1 cells were 
B7x negative in vitro and in vivo, and B7x(-/-) mice had significantly fewer 
lung 4T1 tumor nodules than did wild-type mice. Furthermore, B7x(-/-) mice 
showed significantly enhanced survival and a memory response to tumor 
rechallenge. Mechanistic studies revealed that the presence of B7x correlated 
with reduced general and tumor-specific T cell cytokine responses, as well as 
with an increased infiltration of immunosuppressive cells, including 
tumor-associated neutrophils, macrophages, and regulatory T cells, into 
tumor-bearing lungs. Importantly, tumor-associated neutrophils strongly bound 
B7x protein and inhibited the proliferation of both CD4 and CD8 T cells. These 
results suggest that host B7x may enable metastasizing cancer cells to escape 
local antitumor immune responses through interactions with the innate and 
adaptive immune systems. Thus, targeting the B7x pathway holds much promise for 
improving the efficacy of immunotherapy for metastatic cancer.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1202439
PMCID: PMC3608819
PMID: 23455497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Oncotarget. 2013 Apr;4(4):610-21. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.934.

Prostate derived Ets transcription factor and Carcinoembryonic antigen related 
cell adhesion molecule 6 constitute a highly active oncogenic axis in breast 
cancer.

Mukhopadhyay A(1), Khoury T, Stein L, Shrikant P, Sood AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA.

We previously reported overexpression of Prostate derived Ets transcription 
factor (PDEF) in breast cancer and its role in breast cancer progression, 
supporting PDEF as an attractive target in this cancer. The goal of this 
research was to identify specific PDEF induced molecules that, like PDEF, show 
overexpression in breast tumors and a role in breast tumor progression. PDEF 
expression was down regulated by shRNA in MCF-7 human breast tumor cell line, 
and probes from PDEF down-regulated and control MCF-7 cells were used to screen 
the HG-U133A human gene chips. These analyses identified 1318 genes that were 
induced two-fold or higher by PDEF in MCF-7 cells. Further analysis of three of 
these genes, namely CEACAM6, S100A7 and B7-H4, in relation to PDEF in primary 
breast tumors showed that in 82% of ER+, 67% of Her2 overexpressing and 24% of 
triple-negative breast tumors both PDEF and CEACAM6 expression was elevated 
10-fold or higher in comparison to normal breast tissue. Overall, 72% (94 of 
131) of the primary breast tumors showed 10-fold or higher expression of both 
PDEF and CEACAM6. In contrast, S100A7 and B7-H4 failed to show concordant 
elevated expression with PDEF in primary tumors. To determine the significance 
of elevated PDEF and CEACAM6 expression to tumor phenotype, their expression was 
down regulated by specific siRNAs in human breast tumor cell lines. This 
resulted in the loss of viability of tumor cells in vitro, supporting an 
oncogenic role for both PDEF and CEACAM6 in breast cancer. Together, these 
findings show that PDEF-CEACAM6 is a highly active oncogenic axis in breast 
cancer and suggest that targeting of these molecules should provide novel 
treatments for most breast cancer patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.934
PMCID: PMC3720608
PMID: 23592399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Inflammation. 2013 Aug;36(4):941-7. doi: 10.1007/s10753-013-9624-0.

B7-H4's role "beyond the tumor".

Yu N(1), Li X, Zheng S, Li X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Affiliated Anhui Provincial 
Hospital, Anhui Medical University, 17 Lujiang Road, Hefei, Anhui 230001, 
People's Republic of China.

B7-H4 is a ligand in the B7 costimulatory family, executing suppressive function 
on the immune system in many diseases, such as cancer, allograft rejection, and 
autoimmune diseases. The receptor for this molecule has yet to be clarified. The 
engagement of B7-H4 inhibits proliferation of immune cells by stopping the cell 
cycle at the G0/G1 phase and leads to apoptosis via the Fas/FasL pathway 
consequently accelerating tumor progression and alleviating allograft rejection. 
The pathogenic role of B7-H4 in tumors has been widely established, but few 
studies have focused on its function in other disorders. Here, we review recent 
advances in our understanding of B7-H4 biology in disease settings other than 
tumors and document the beneficial values to treat those diseases by targeting 
this molecule and related signaling pathways.

DOI: 10.1007/s10753-013-9624-0
PMID: 23605559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Cell Immunol. 2013 Mar;282(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2013.03.005. Epub
2013  Apr 4.

B7-H4.Ig inhibits the development of type 1 diabetes by regulating Th17 cells in 
NOD mice.

Lee IF(1), Wang X, Hao J, Akhoundsadegh N, Chen L, Liu L, Langermann S, Ou D, 
Warnock GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an autoimmune disease characterized by immunological 
destruction of insulin-producing pancreatic β-cells and subsequent 
hyperglycemia. The non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse strain spontaneously develops 
a disease similar to human T1D and is commonly used as an animal model for 
studying this disease. We have previously shown that the administration of 
B7-H4-immunoglobulin fusion protein (B7-H4.Ig), a newly identified T-cell 
co-inhibitory signaling molecule, blocks the onset of diabetes in NOD mice. 
However, the mechanism(s) by which B7-H4 protects NOD mice from T1D is not fully 
understood. IL-17 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine, produced by Th17 cells, that 
activates T cells and other immune cells to produce a variety of cytokines and 
chemokines. Increasing evidence has shown that therapeutic agents targeting the 
IL-17 molecule or directly inhibiting IL-17-producing cells regulate autoimmune 
diabetes in NOD mice, suggesting that IL-17 is involved in the pathogenesis of 
this disease. In this study, we investigate whether B7-H4.Ig treatment inhibits 
the generation of Th17 cells which subsequently decreases IL-17 production and 
prevents the onset of T1D in NOD mice. Pre-diabetic female NOD mice were 
injected intraperitoneally with control mouse IgG or B7-H4.Ig starting at 4 
weeks of age for 12 weeks. Our data showed that the frequency of Th17 cells in 
B7-H4.Ig-treated mice was significantly decreased. In addition, our data showed 
that B7-H4.Ig-treated mice had decreased levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines 
and Th17-associated cytokines, and an increased level of the potent Th17 
inhibitor IFN-γ. To further investigate the effect of B7-H4.Ig on 
differentiation of Th17 cells, we co-cultured splenocytes with Th17-polarizing 
cytokines in the absence or presence of B7-H4.Ig. Our results indicated that 
splenocytes, under the Th17 driving conditions in the presence of B7-H4.Ig, had 
significantly decreased the numbers of Th17 cells compared to cells co-cultured 
in the absence of B7-H4.Ig. Together, this study suggests that blocking the 
generation of Th17 cells with the administration of B7-H4.Ig effectively 
inhibits the development of T1D in NOD mice.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2013.03.005
PMID: 23623902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2013 Sep;270(10):2683-93. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-013-2510-4. Epub 2013 Apr 30.

Expression of selected regulatory molecules on the CD83+ monocyte-derived 
dendritic cells generated from patients with laryngeal cancer and their clinical 
significance.

Klatka J(1), Grywalska E, Klatka M, Wasiak M, Andrzejczak A, Rolinski J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology and Laryngeal Oncology, Medical University of 
Lublin, Jaczewskiego 8 Street, 20-954 Lublin, Poland.

B7H1 and B7H4 overexpression is associated with inhibition of the immune system 
in many solid tumors, and altogether with CD200 molecule plays an important role 
in tumor invasion by promoting malignant transformation. However, there is no 
report about impact of these molecules on laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma. The 
objective of the present study was to assess by means of flow cytometry the 
expression of B7H1, B7H4, CD200, and CD200R on CD83+ monocyte-derived dendritic 
cells (Mo-DC), pulsed with autologous tumor cell lysates (aTCL) in patients who 
suffer from G1, G2, or G3 laryngeal carcinoma (LC, n = 60) in comparison to 
healthy donors (HD, n = 15). It has been demonstrated that median value of the 
percentages of CD83+ B7H1+, CD83+ B7H4+, and CD83+ CD200+ cells were higher in 
LC patients than HD (p = 0.041, p ≤ 0.0001, and p = 0.02, respectively). Mean 
fluorescence intensity (MFI) of CD200, CD200R, B7H1, and B7H4 on the Mo-DC 
pulsed with aTCL of the patients was also higher than on the Mo-DC of HD (p ≤ 
0.0001, p ≤ 0.0001, p = 0.002, and p ≤ 0.0001, respectively). The highest MFI 
levels of all molecules were noted in grade 3 LC. The aforementioned results 
prove that there is a relation between the presence of laryngeal cancer and the 
expression of B7H1, B7H4, CD200, and CD200R regulatory molecules on the CD83+ 
Mo-DC pulsed with autologous cancer cell lysates. Strong association of LC grade 
and the tested antigens expression suggests a critical role for these proteins 
in LC biology.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-013-2510-4
PMCID: PMC3758516
PMID: 23632869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Cell Tissue Res. 2013 Jul;353(1):139-51. doi: 10.1007/s00441-013-1640-8.
Epub  2013 May 10.

B7-H4 enhances oncogenicity and inhibits apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells.

Qian Y(1), Hong B, Shen L, Wu Z, Yao H, Zhang L.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, 
Institute of Infectious Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, 79 Qingchun Road, 310003, Hangzhou, China. 
qianyunm@hotmail.com

B7-H4 is expressed in a variety of tumor cells and functions as a negative 
regulator of T cells. However, clarification is needed as to whether B7-H4 
mediates tumorigenesis through mechanisms, such as apoptosis, in addition to 
mediating tumor immune escape. We investigate the mechanisms involved in 
enhanced oncogenicity and the inhibition of apoptosis by B7-H4 in pancreatic 
cancer cells. Short interfering RNAs (siRNAs) specific for B7-H4 were evaluated 
for their ability to knockdown B7-H4 mRNA and protein expression in pancreatic 
cancer cells and the most effective siRNA was selected for investigating the 
effect of B7-H4 gene silencing in a number of functional assays. The inhibition 
of B7-H4 increased cell-cell adhesion and decreased the formation of 
pseudopodia. It also increased the expression of E-cadherin and decreased the 
expression of vimentin and CD44. B7-H4 siRNA inhibited cell proliferation, 
colony formation and migration of pancreatic cancer cells. Moreover, increased 
apoptosis in pancreatic cancer cells following B7-H4 silencing was demonstrated 
in vitro by using flow cytometry and in a xenograft tumor model and was 
associated with increased caspase activity and decreased Erk1/2 phosphorylation 
both in vitro and in vivo. Loss of B7-H4 function thus prevents tumor growth 
through many processes, including the induction of apoptosis and inhibition of 
the Erk1/2 signaling pathway indicating that B7-H4 is a cancer promoter and a 
potentially important therapeutic target. B7-H4 inhibition might offer an 
exciting opportunity to inhibit the progression of human pancreatic cancers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-013-1640-8
PMID: 23660627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Autoimmun. 2013 Aug;44:71-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.04.001. Epub 2013
May  14.

B7-H4Ig inhibits mouse and human T-cell function and treats EAE via 
IL-10/Treg-dependent mechanisms.

Podojil JR(1), Liu LN, Marshall SA, Chiang MY, Goings GE, Chen L, Langermann S, 
Miller SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology and Interdepartmental Immunobiology 
Center, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Tarry 6-718, 303 E. 
Chicago Ave, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

We evaluated the therapeutic efficacy and mechanisms of action of both mouse and 
human B7-H4 Immunoglobulin fusion proteins (mB7-H4Ig; hB7-H4Ig) in treating EAE. 
The present data show that mB7-H4Ig both directly and indirectly (via increasing 
Treg function) inhibited CD4⁺ T-cell proliferation and differentiation in both 
Th1- and Th17-cell promoting conditions while inducing production of IL-10. 
B7-H4Ig treatment effectively ameliorated progression of both relapsing (R-EAE) 
and chronic EAE correlating with decreased numbers of activated CD4⁺ T-cells 
within the CNS and spleen, and a concurrent increase in number and function of 
Tregs. The functional requirement for Treg activation in treating EAE was 
demonstrated by a loss of therapeutic efficacy of hB7-H4Ig in R-EAE following 
inactivation of Treg function either by anti-CD25 treatment or blockade of 
IL-10. Significant to the eventual translation of this treatment into clinical 
practice, hB7-H4Ig similarly inhibited the in vitro differentiation of naïve 
human CD4⁺ T-cells in both Th1- and Th17-promoting conditions, while promoting 
the production of IL-10. B7-H4Ig thus regulates pro-inflammatory T-cell 
responses by a unique dual mechanism of action and demonstrates significant 
promise as a therapeutic for autoimmune diseases, including MS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2013.04.001
PMCID: PMC3973032
PMID: 23683881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Immunol. 2013 Jun 15;190(12):6651-61. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1201242. Epub
2013  May 17.

Host B7-H4 regulates antitumor T cell responses through inhibition of 
myeloid-derived suppressor cells in a 4T1 tumor transplantation model.

Leung J(1), Suh WK.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Recherche en Régulation Immunitaire, Institut de Recherches 
Cliniques de Montréal, Montreal, Quebec H2W 1R7, Canada.

B7-H4, a member of the B7 family of T cell immunomodulatory proteins, has been 
shown to inhibit T cell responses and neutrophil expansion during bacterial 
infections. However, the role of B7-H4 in the immune response during tumor 
growth has been unclear. In this study, we examined the host immune responses in 
B7-H4-deficient (knockout [KO]) or sufficient (wild-type [WT]) BALB/cJ mice upon 
transplantation of murine 4T1 carcinoma cells that had little B7-H4 expression. 
We reveal that host B7-H4 not only dampens the antitumor Th1 responses, but also 
inhibits the protumor function of myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSC). We 
observed increased expression of both antitumor immune effectors and protumor 
MDSC-associated transcripts in 4T1 tumors grown in B7-H4 KO mice compared with 
those grown in WT hosts. Consistently, MDSCs derived from B7-H4 KO mice 
suppressed T cell proliferation more potently than their WT counterparts. 
Although the primary growth of 4T1 tumors in B7-H4 KO hosts was similar to that 
in WT mice, tumors that had grown in B7-H4 KO hosts grew much slower than those 
from WT mice when subsequently transplanted into WT hosts. Importantly, this 
differential tumor growth during the secondary transplantation was abrogated 
when recipient mice lacked T cells, indicating that the immune environment in 
B7-H4 KO hosts allowed outgrowth of 4T1 tumors with reduced immune-evasive 
capacities against T cells. Thus, B7-H4 can inhibit both antitumor T cells and 
protumor MDSCs, influencing the immune-evasive character of the outgrowing 
tumors. These factors should be considered if B7-H4 blockade is to be used for 
cancer immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1201242
PMID: 23686485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Cancer Res. 2013 Aug 1;73(15):4820-9. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-12-3457.
Epub  2013 May 30.

Novel recombinant human b7-h4 antibodies overcome tumoral immune escape to 
potentiate T-cell antitumor responses.

Dangaj D(1), Lanitis E, Zhao A, Joshi S, Cheng Y, Sandaltzopoulos R, Ra HJ, 
Danet-Desnoyers G, Powell DJ Jr, Scholler N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ovarian Cancer Research Center, and 
Departments of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine and Hematology/Oncology, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

B7-H4 (VTCN1, B7x, B7s) is a ligand for inhibitory coreceptors on T cells 
implicated in antigenic tolerization. B7-H4 is expressed by tumor cells and 
tumor-associated macrophages (TAM), but its potential contributions to tumoral 
immune escape and therapeutic targeting have been less studied. To interrogate 
B7-H4 expression on tumor cells, we analyzed fresh primary ovarian cancer cells 
collected from patient ascites and solid tumors, and established cell lines 
before and after in vivo passaging. B7-H4 expression was detected on the surface 
of all fresh primary human tumors and tumor xenotransplants, but not on most 
established cell lines, and B7-H4 was lost rapidly by tumor xenograft cells 
after short-term in vitro culture. These results indicated an in vivo 
requirement for B7-H4 induction and defined conditions for targeting studies. To 
generate anti-B7-H4-targeting reagents, we isolated antibodies by differential 
cell screening of a yeast-display single-chain fragments variable (scFv) library 
derived from patients with ovarian cancer. We identified anti-B7-H4 scFv that 
reversed in vitro inhibition of CD3-stimulated T cells by B7-H4 protein. 
Notably, these reagents rescued tumor antigen-specific T-cell activation, which 
was otherwise inhibited by coculture with antigen-loaded B7-H4+ APCs, B7-H4+ 
tumor cells, or B7-H4- tumor cells mixed with B7-H4+ TAMs; peritoneal 
administration of anti-B7-H4 scFv delayed the growth of established tumors. 
Together, our findings showed that cell surface expression of B7-H4 occurs only 
in tumors in vivo and that antibody binding of B7-H4 could restore antitumor 
T-cell responses. We suggest that blocking of B7-H4/B7-H4 ligand interactions 
may represent a feasible therapeutic strategy for ovarian cancer.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-12-3457
PMCID: PMC3732560
PMID: 23722540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest The authors declare no 
conflict of interest to disclose.


134. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2013 Jun 1;18(3):1003-16. doi: 10.2741/4159.

Creation of a suppressive microenvironment by macrophages and cancer-associated 
fibroblasts.

Dutsch-Wicherek M(1), Kazmierczak W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Obstetrics and Oncology, Ludwik Rydygier Collegium 
Medicum, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Bydgoszcz. mowicher@gmail.com

The cancer microenvironment makes up the stroma of the neoplasm and is the 
tissue that determines tumor growth, progression, and ability to initiate 
metastases. Because of the role that the cancer microenvironment plays in each 
stage of tumor development, knowledge about the interactions of the tumor with 
its microenvironment would seem to be of the utmost importance for developing 
new treatment strategies. The cancer microenvironment is created by the tissue 
surrounding the tumor cells and is composed of cells, extracellular matrix, and 
the proteins of the extracellular matrix. Although tumor cells are capable of 
penetrating the surrounding stroma, it is the tumor stroma that provides the 
necessary blood supply and growth factors for the tumor cells that condition 
tumor growth. In the present review we discuss the role of various cells like 
tumor-associated macrophages and cancer-associated fibroblasts, expressing 
RCAS1, B7-H4 molecules, and MT in creating the suppressive profile of the cancer 
microenvironment and in the cancer microenvironment remodeling that enables both 
local tumor spread and the creation of metastases.

DOI: 10.2741/4159
PMID: 23747863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Reprod Immunol. 2013 Sep;99(1-2):33-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jri.2013.04.004.
Epub  2013 Jun 14.

The expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 co-stimulatory molecules on myeloid and 
plasmacytoid dendritic cells in pre-eclampsia and normal pregnancy.

Darmochwal-Kolarz D(1), Kludka-Sternik M, Kolarz B, Chmielewski T, Tabarkiewicz 
J, Rolinski J, Leszczynska-Gorzelak B, Oleszczuk J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Perinatology, Medical University of Lublin, 
Poland. Electronic address: dorotak@mp.pl.

The aim of our study was to estimate the expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules 
on myeloid and plasmacytoid dendritic cells (DCs) in the peripheral blood of 
patients with pre-eclampsia, normal pregnant women and healthy non-pregnant 
women. Thirty-three patients with pre-eclampsia, 26 normal pregnant women, and 
12 healthy non-pregnant women were included in the study. Dendritic cells were 
isolated from peripheral blood, stained with monoclonal antibodies against blood 
dendritic cell antigens and B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules and estimated using flow 
cytometry. The expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules was significantly higher 
on CD1c(+) myeloid and CD303(+) plasmacytoid DCs in the first trimester of 
pregnancy than in the luteal phase of the ovarian cycle (CD1c(+)B7-H1(+): 
19.19±10.55% vs. 11.99±6.79%; p<0.05; CD1c(+)B7-H4(+): 12.01±9.15% vs. 
3.98±1.97%, p<0.001; CD303(+)B7-H1(+): 4.15±2.38% vs. 1.70±0.87%, p<0.05; 
CD303(+)B7-H4(+): 5.44±2.93% vs. 2.33±1.54%, p<0.01). Moreover, the expression 
of the B7-H1 molecule on CD1c(+) DCs in the second trimester of normal pregnancy 
was significantly higher than in the first trimester, but in the third trimester 
they decreased compared with the second trimester (II vs. I trimester: 
32.23±11.30% vs. 19.19±10.55%, p<0.01; III vs. II trimester: 32.23±11.30% vs. 
22.39±8.19%, p<0.01). The expression of B7-H1 molecule on CD1c(+) myeloid and 
CD303(+) plasmacytoid DCs was significantly lower in pre-eclampsia than in 
healthy third-trimester pregnant women (CD1c(+)B7-H1(+): 13.78±6.26% vs. 
22.39±8.19%, p<0.05; CD303(+)B7-H1(+): 3.66±2.46% vs. 8.65±3.15%, p<0.01). 
Higher expressions of B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules on CD1c(+) myeloid and CD303(+) 
plasmacytoid DCs in the first trimester of pregnancy suggest the role they play 
in the immunomodulation during early pregnancy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jri.2013.04.004
PMID: 23773232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2013;14(5):3011-5. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.5.3011.

B7-H4 expression is associated with cancer progression and predicts patient 
survival in human thyroid cancer.

Zhu J(1), Chu BF, Yang YP, Zhang SL, Zhuang M, Lu WJ, Liu YB.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
school of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to investigate the expression of B7-H4 in human 
thyroid cancer and determine any association with patient clinicopathological 
parameters and survival.
METHODS: B7-H4 expression in 64 clinical thyroid cancer specimens was assessed 
with immunohistochemistry. Moreover, B7-H4 mRNA expression in 10 fresh resected 
specimens were evaluated by the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction 
(RT-PCR). Immunohistochemical staining of CD3 was performed to assess the number 
of tumor infiltrating T lymphocytes (TILs) in thyroid cancers.
RESULTS: Positive B7-H4 immunohistochemical staining was observed in 61 out of 
64 (95.3%) specimens of thyroid cancer tissues. Significantly more B7-H4 mRNA 
copies were found in thyroid cancer tissue than that adjacent normal tissue. 
Moreover, B7-H4 expression in human thyroid cancer tissues was significantly 
correlated with patient TNM stages and extrathyroidal extension (P<0.05), being 
inversely correlated with the number of TILs (P<0.05). The overall survival rate 
of the patients with higher B7-H4 expression was significantly worse than that 
of the patients with lower B7-H4 expression.
CONCLUSIONS: This present study suggests that high B7-H4 expression is 
associated with cancer progression, reduced tumor immunosurveillance and worse 
patient outcomes in human thyroid cancer.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.5.3011
PMID: 23803071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Stem Cell Rev Rep. 2013 Oct;9(5):620-41. doi: 10.1007/s12015-013-9455-2.

Human placental mesenchymal stem cells (pMSCs) play a role as immune suppressive 
cells by shifting macrophage differentiation from inflammatory M1 to 
anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages.

Abumaree MH(1), Al Jumah MA, Kalionis B, Jawdat D, Al Khaldi A, Abomaray FM, 
Fatani AS, Chamley LW, Knawy BA.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences, 
King Abdulaziz Medical City, National Guard Health Affairs, P.O. Box 22490, 
Riyadh, 11426, Mail Code 1515, Saudi Arabia, mohamedabumaree@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have a therapeutic potential in tissue 
repair because of capacity for multipotent differentiation and their ability to 
modulate the immune response. In this study, we examined the ability of human 
placental MSCs (pMSCs) to modify the differentiation of human monocytes into 
macrophages and assessed the influence of pMSCs on important macrophage 
functions.
METHODS: We used GM-CSF to stimulate the differentiation of monocytes into the 
M1 macrophage pathway and then co-cultured these cells with pMSCs in the early 
stages of macrophage differentiation. We then evaluated the effect on 
differentiation by microscopic examination and by quantification of molecules 
important in the differentiation and immune functions of macrophages using flow 
cytometry and ELISA. The mechanism by which pMSCs could mediate their effects on 
macrophage differentiation was also studied.
RESULTS: The co-culture of pMSCs with monocytes stimulated to follow the 
inflammatory M1 macrophage differentiation pathway resulted in a shift to 
anti-inflammatory M2-like macrophage differentiation. This transition was 
characterized by morphological of changes typical of M2 macrophages, and by 
changes in cell surface marker expression including CD14, CD36, CD163, CD204, 
CD206, B7-H4 and CD11b, which are distinctive of M2 macrophages. Co-culture with 
pMSCs reduced the expression of the costimulatory molecules (CD40, CD80 and 
CD86) and increased the expression of co-inhibitory molecules (CD273, CD274 and 
B7-H4) as well as the surface expression of major histocompatibility complex 
(MHC-II) molecules. Furthermore, the secretion of IL-10 was increased while the 
secretion of IL-1β, IL-12 (p70) and MIP-1α was decreased; a profile typical of 
M2 macrophages. Finally, pMSCs induced the phagocytic activity and the 
phagocytosis of apoptotic cells associated with M2- like macrophages; again a 
profile typical of M2 macrophages. We found that the immunoregulatory effect of 
pMSCs on macrophage differentiation was mediated by soluble molecules acting 
partially via glucocorticoid and progesterone receptors.
CONCLUSIONS: We have shown that pMSCs can transition macrophages from an 
inflammatory M1 into an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype. Our findings suggest a 
new immunosuppressive property of pMSCs that may be employed in the resolution 
of inflammation associated with inflammatory diseases and in tissue repair.

DOI: 10.1007/s12015-013-9455-2
PMID: 23812784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Immunology. 2013 Dec;140(4):399-412. doi: 10.1111/imm.12145.

Characterization of regulatory dendritic cells differentiated from the bone 
marrow of UV-irradiated mice.

Ng RL(1), Scott NM, Bisley JL, Lambert MJ, Gorman S, Norval M, Hart PH.

Author information:
(1)Telethon Institute for Child Health Research, Centre for Child Health 
Research, University of Western Australia, Perth, WA, Australia.

When antigen-loaded dendritic cells (DCs) differentiated from the bone marrow 
(BM) of UV-irradiated mice (UV-BMDCs) were adoptively transferred into naive 
mice or mice pre-sensitized with that antigen, the recipients exhibited a 
reduced immune response following antigen challenge. Hence, UV-BMDCs are poorly 
immunogenic and can suppress pre-existing immunity. The UV-induced effect on 
BM-derived DCs was rapid (observed 1 day after UV radiation), long-lasting 
(observed 10 days after UV radiation) and UV dose-dependent. The mechanism by 
which UV-BMDCs could regulate immunity was investigated. The CD11c(+) cells, 
differentiated using granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor + 
interleukin-4, were confirmed to be DCs because they did not express the 
myeloid-derived suppressor cell marker, Gr1. UV-BMDCs did not display altered 
antigen uptake, processing or ability to activate T cells in vitro. When gene 
expression in UV-BMDCs and DCs differentiated from the BM of non-irradiated mice 
(control-BMDCs) was examined, Ccl7, Ccl8 and CSF1R (CD115) mRNA transcripts were 
up-regulated in UV-BMDCs compared with control-BMDCs. However, neutralizing 
antibodies for Ccl7 and Ccl8 did not abrogate the reduced immunogenicity of 
UV-BMDCs in vivo. Moreover, the up-regulation of CSF1R transcript did not 
correspond with increased receptor expression on UV-BMDCs. The phenotypes of 
UV-BMDCs and control-BMDCs were similar, with no difference in the expression of 
CD4, CD8α, CD103, B220 or F4/80, or the regulatory molecules CCR7 (CD197), FasL 
(CD95L), B7H3 (CD276) and B7H4. However, PDL1 (CD274) expression was reduced in 
UV-BMDCs compared with control-BMDCs following lipopolysaccharide stimulation. 
In summary, UV-BMDCs do not express the classical phenotypic or gene expression 
properties of DCs reported by others as 'regulatory' or 'tolerogenic'.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imm.12145
PMCID: PMC3839644
PMID: 23826713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Immunopharmacol Immunotoxicol. 2013 Aug;35(4):505-13. doi: 
10.3109/08923973.2013.810642. Epub 2013 Jul 10.

B7-H4-Ig treatment of normal mice changes lymphocyte homeostasis and increases 
the potential of regulatory T cells.

Kristensen NN(1), Schmidt EG, Rasmussen S, Balk-Møller E, Claesson MH.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Immunology, Department of International Health, 
Immunology and Bacteriology, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Enteroantigens (eAgs) drive tolerogenic and inflammatory immune responses in the 
gut and are of importance for sustained immune homeostasis in colonic mucosa. 
Decline of regulatory activity in the gut mucosa might result in chronic 
colitis. B7-H4 is a co-inhibitory receptor expressed by professional 
antigen-presenting cells. By delivering signal 2 during T cell activation, it 
inhibits T cell proliferation and inflammation. In this study, we have used a 
newly developed B7-H4-Ig fusion protein and evaluated its effect on 
eAg-activated effector and regulatory T cells (Treg) in vitro and in vivo. T 
cells were recovered from the mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs) of untreated or 
B7-H4-Ig-treated BALB/c mice. Treatment of cells in vitro did neither affect the 
proliferation of effector T cells nor the function of Tregs. In vivo, B7-H4 
treatment increased the total number of MLN-derived CD4⁺ and CD8⁺ T cell subsets 
as well as the functional activity of MLN-derived Tregs, whereas the 
proliferative activity of eAg or alloantigen specific effector T cells was not 
influenced, although treatment resulted in less secretion of inflammatory 
cytokines and chemokines from these cells. B7-H4-Ig treatment of severe combined 
immune-deficient (SCID) mice undergoing T cell transfer colitis did not 
influence the course of disease probably reflecting the lack of Tregs in this 
model of chronic colitis. In conclusion, we show that treatment with B7-H4-Ig in 
vivo changes lymphocyte homeostasis and increases the regulatory potential in 
normal mice, but does not affect the course of disease development in SCID mice 
undergoing T cell transfer colitis.

DOI: 10.3109/08923973.2013.810642
PMID: 23841452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Tumour Biol. 2014 Jan;35(1):55-60. doi: 10.1007/s13277-013-1006-6. Epub 2013
Jul  20.

T-cell infiltration and expressions of T lymphocyte co-inhibitory B7-H1 and 
B7-H4 molecules among colorectal cancer patients in northeast China's 
Heilongjiang province.

Liang M(1), Li J, Wang D, Li S, Sun Y, Sun T, Zhang J, Chen X, Li Q, Sun S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin 
Medical University, Harbin, 150086, China, lm1978081@126.com.

Colorectal cancer has an extremely poor prognosis due to its high rate of 
recurrence and metastasis. The present study aimed to investigate the 
correlations between the B7-H1 and B7-H4 expressions as well as the 
clinicopathological characteristics and the prognosis of patients with 
colorectal cancer. We further inferred from these findings whether T lymphocyte 
co-inhibitory molecules (B7-H1 and B7-H4) led to a poor prognosis in 
Heilongjiang patients with colorectal cancer. Survival analysis revealed that 
the poor prognosis of these patients was unrelated to patient age, tumor size or 
histological grade, or lymph node metastasis, but was associated with TNM stage, 
high B7-H1 and B7-H4 expression levels. High B7-H1 and B7-H4 expressions were 
closely correlated with poor prognosis in patients with colorectal cancer. We 
speculate that the joint detection of these molecules may clinically apply for 
diagnosing and predicting poor prognosis of patients with colorectal cancer in 
northeast China's Heilongjiang province. In addition, intervention of B7-H1 and 
B7-H4 may be beneficial for enhancement of immunity in these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-013-1006-6
PMID: 23873101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Onco Targets Ther. 2013 Jul 10;6:869-75. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S48085. Print
2013.

Clinical significance of B7-H4 expression in matched non-small cell lung cancer 
brain metastases and primary tumors.

Li ZY(1), Zhang XH, Chen Y, Guo JG, Sai K, Yang QY, Chen ZP, Mou YG.

Author information:
(1)Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Capital Medical University, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4, a member of the inhibitory B7 family, is shown to have a 
profound inhibitory effect on the proliferation, activation, cytokine secretion, 
and development of cytotoxicity of T cells and may be involved in immune evasion 
in cancer patients. Although B7-H4 expression has been detected in non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC), there are no published reports on the expression of 
B7-H4 in brain metastases from NSCLC.
METHODS: We examined the expression of B7-H4 by immunohistochemistry in 49 cases 
of brain metastatic NSCLC, 18 cases of matched primary NSCLC, and 20 cases of 
NSCLC patients who had neither brain metastases nor other distant metastases.
RESULTS: B7-H4 was highly expressed in 20 (40.8%) out of 49 brain metastases and 
two (11.1%) out of 18 matched primary tumors. The expression of B7-H4 in brain 
metastases appeared to be significantly higher than their matched primary tumors 
(P = 0.016). We also found that patients with high B7-H4 expression in their 
primary NSCLC have a higher risk of developing brain metastases (P = 0.022). 
Univariate analyses showed that median overall survival was significantly 
shorter in patients with high B7-H4 expression in brain metastases (P = 0.002). 
Multivariate analyses showed that B7-H4 was a significant independent prognostic 
indicator (P = 0.003).
CONCLUSION: NSCLC patients with high B7-H4 expression may benefit from 
aggressive treatment and close surveillance. Furthermore, our study suggests 
that B7-H4 may play an important role in the metastatic process of NSCLC and is 
promising to be a new immune checkpoint molecule for future antitumoral 
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S48085
PMCID: PMC3711949
PMID: 23874109


142. Trends Immunol. 2013 Nov;34(11):556-63. doi: 10.1016/j.it.2013.07.003. Epub
2013  Aug 13.

B7 family checkpoint regulators in immune regulation and disease.

Ceeraz S(1), Nowak EC, Noelle RJ.

Author information:
(1)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Department of Microbiology and 
Immunology, Norris Cotton Cancer Centre, 1 Medical Center Drive, Lebanon, New 
Hampshire 03756, USA.

Fine-tuning the immune response and maintaining tolerance to self-antigens 
involves a complex network of co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory molecules. The 
recent FDA approval of ipilimumab, a monoclonal antibody blocking cytotoxic T 
lymphocyte antigen (CTLA)-4, demonstrates the impact of checkpoint regulators in 
disease. This is reinforced by ongoing clinical trials targeting not only 
CTLA-4, but also the programmed death (PD)-1 and B7-H4 pathways in various 
disease states. Recently, two new B7 family inhibitory ligands, V-domain Ig 
suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA) and B7-H6 were identified. Here, we 
review recent understanding of B7 family members and their concerted regulation 
of the immune response to either self or foreign pathogens. We also discuss 
clinical developments in targeting these pathways in different disease settings, 
and introduce VISTA as a putative therapeutic target.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.it.2013.07.003
PMCID: PMC3821798
PMID: 23954143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Immunol Lett. 2013 Jul-Aug;154(1-2):25-30. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.07.009.
 Epub 2013 Aug 22.

Expression of co-stimulatory molecule B7-H4 in patients suffering from 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Chen L(1), Lu Y, Wang F, Zhou M, Chu Y, Ding W, Liu C, Xie J, Wu C, Jiang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China.

B7-H4, an inhibitory modulator of T-cell response, is one of the most recently 
identified cell surface molecules in the B7-CD28 signaling pathway. However, its 
role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) remains unclear. In the 
present study, the immunofluorescence staining, confocal laser scanning 
microscopy and flow cytometry techniques were used to characterize B7-H4 protein 
expression in RA synovium tissues and peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) 
subsets, respectively. Our data showed that the immunolocalization of B7-H4 
could be found on the membrane and in the cytoplasm of synoviocytes and CD19(+) 
B cells in rheumatoid synovium tissues, while B7-H4 was weakly or negatively 
expressed on CD3(+) T cells, CD14(+) monocytes and CD68(+) macrophages. 
Moreover, B7-H4 expression was observed in CD34(+) endothelial cells of 
neovessels in rheumatoid synovium. Flow cytometric analysis also showed that 
positive B7-H4 expression was found in CD19(+) B cells and CD14(+) monocytes, 
but not in CD3(+) T cells. Thus, our work identified the expression pattern of 
B7-H4 in the synovium tissues and PBMC subsets from RA patients, suggesting that 
B7-H4 involves in the pathological changes of rheumatoid synovium in RA 
progression, and its detailed biological function needs further investigations.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2013.07.009
PMID: 23973734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Yonago Acta Med. 2011 Mar;54(1):1-10. Epub 2011 Mar 1.

Increased B7-H1 and B7-H4 Expressions on Circulating Monocytes and 
Tumor-Associated Macrophages are Involved in Immune Evasion in Patients with 
Gastric Cancer.

Matsunaga T(1), Saito H, Ikeguchi M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, School of Medicine, 
Tottori University Faculty of Medicine, Yonago 683-8504, Japan.

Expression of the costimulatory molecule B7-H4, a member of the inhibitory B7 
family, has been reported to be upregulated on tumor-associated macrophages, and 
this overexpression may be involved in immune evasion in cancer patients. The 
present study was designed to investigate B7-H4 expression on 
monocytes/macrophages and its relationship with immune evasion in gastric cancer 
patients. B7-H4 expression on circulating monocytes and tumor-associated 
macrophages was evaluated by multicolor flow cytometry. Carboxyfluorescein 
succinimidyl ester proliferation assays and quantitative interferon-gamma 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays were carried out to determine the inhibitory 
effect of B7-H4+ monocytes on CD4+ T cells. B7-H4 expression on circulating 
monocytes was upregulated and these B7-H4+ monocytes showed immunosuppressive 
properties. B7-H4 expression was closely related to the depth of invasion, as 
well as the presence of lymphatic and venous invasion. There were significant 
correlations between B7-H4 expression and B7-H1 or HLA-DR expression on 
monocytes/macrophages in gastric cancer patients. B7-H4 expression was 
remarkably upregulated in gastric cancer tissues compared with peripheral blood 
samples. Complete surgical removal of the tumor decreased B7-H4 expression on 
circulating monocytes from gastric cancer patients. Cocultures of gastric cancer 
cell lines and monocytes led to upregulation of B7-H4 expression on monocytes. 
Increased B7-H4 expression on circulating monocytes and tumor-associated 
macrophages may be one of the key mechanisms responsible for immune evasion by 
tumors in gastric cancer.

PMCID: PMC3763800
PMID: 24031123


145. Mol Immunol. 2013 Dec;56(4):819-28. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2013.08.003.

BTNL8, a butyrophilin-like molecule that costimulates the primary immune 
response.

Chapoval AI(1), Smithson G, Brunick L, Mesri M, Boldog FL, Andrew D, Khramtsov 
NV, Feshchenko EA, Starling GC, Mezes PS.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, Department of 
Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA; CuraGen 
Corporation, Branford, CT 06405, USA. Electronic address: chapoval@comcast.net.

The role of the B7 family molecules in the regulation of the immune response is 
well documented. A large body of experimental evidence indicates that 
costimulatory molecules such as B7-1, B7-2, B7-DC, B7-H1, B7-H2, B7-H3 and B7-H4 
are critical for initiation, maintenance and down-regulation of the immune 
response. However the immunological function of butyrophilin (BTN)-like 
molecules, which are a part of the expanded B7 family, is not known. Here, we 
demonstrate that the extracellular portion of human BTNL8 can augment Ag-induced 
activation of T lymphocytes. BTNL8 has two alternatively spliced forms: B7-like 
and BTN-like. Both isoforms of BTNL8 were expressed concurrently in various 
human tissues. A putative BTNL8 receptor was detected only on resting T 
lymphocytes. Administration of BTNL8Ig fusion protein into mice promoted 
production of Ag-specific IgG during the primary, but not the secondary immune 
responses. BTNL8 may therefore play an essential role in priming of naïve T 
lymphocytes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molimm.2013.08.003
PMID: 24036152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Oncoimmunology. 2013 Aug 1;2(8):e25913. doi: 10.4161/onci.25913. Epub 2013
Jul  31.

Blocking the B7-H4 pathway with novel recombinant antibodies enhances T 
cell-mediated antitumor responses.

Dangaj D(1), Scholler N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology; Ludwig Cancer Research Center; University of 
Lausanne; Lausanne, Switzerland.

B7-H4 inhibits T-cell activation and is widely expressed by solid neoplasms. We 
have recently demonstrated that the expression of B7-H4 on the surface of 
malignant cells in vivo is inducible, and that novel anti-B7-H4 recombinant 
antibodies can reverse the inhibition of tumor-specific T cells. Thus, 
antibodies targeting the B7-H4 pathways may extend the survival of cancer 
patients by restoring T cell-mediated antitumor responses.

DOI: 10.4161/onci.25913
PMCID: PMC3782523
PMID: 24083083


147. J Cancer Res Ther. 2013 Jul-Sep;9(3):370-5. doi: 10.4103/0973-1482.114434.

An investigation of the effects of FGFR2 and B7-H4 polymorphisms in breast 
cancer.

Ozgöz A(1), Samli H, Oztürk KH, Orhan B, Icduygu FM, Aktepe F, Imirzalioglu N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Kastamonu University, Fazil Boyner 
School of Health, Kastamonu, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: Polymorphisms in FGFR2 are important markers for breast cancer 
susceptibility in the general population. CHEK2 and FGFR2 polymorphisms with 
known susceptibility alleles of BRCA1, BRCA2, PTEN, and TP53, can be 
investigated as potential modifiers of high penetrant risk alleles. Although the 
B7-H4 gene is highly expressed in many different tumors, there is one published 
study showing the association of polymorphisms with breast cancer. We aimed to 
investigate FGFR2 and B7-H4 polymorphisms in breast cancer in the Turkish 
community.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a group of 31 cases diagnosed with breast cancer and 
30 healthy women with matched ages, the single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) 
rs1219648, rs2981582 in FGFR2 gene were identified by sequence analysis and the 
SNPs rs10754339, rs10801935, and rs3738414 in the B7-H4 gene were identified by 
polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) 
method. Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS.
RESULTS: Although statistically not significant, the frequency of FGFR2 
heterozygous polymorphisms in the group with breast cancer was detected to be 
higher. In the B7-H4 SNP rs10801935, polymorphic AA, and AG genotype 
distributions were found in higher frequencies in the breast cancer patients. In 
contrast to the results of a published study, the present study shows that B7-H4 
rs3738414 polymorphism GG genotype was found in higher frequency in the control 
group than the breast cancer group and the result was statistically significant 
(P=0.018).
CONCLUSION: Larger scale studies are necessary to determine the prevalence of 
these polymorphisms and association with breast cancer in Turkish community, as 
this study is the first study performed.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.114434
PMID: 24125968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2013 Sep;42(5):511-6.

[Preparation of anti-B7-H4 monoclonal antibody to investigate B7-H4 expression 
in pancreatic cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Hong B(1), Qian Y, Yao HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, the Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare a monoclonal antibody (mAb) against extracellular domain 
of B7-H4 and to investigate the expression of B7-H4 in pancreatic cancer tissue 
with the prepared mAb.
METHODS: Balb/c mice were immunized with 3T3-B7-H4 cells and the splenic cells 
of the immunized mice were fused with Sp2/0 myeloma cells by conventional 
hybridoma techniques. An indirect ELISA method using 3T3-B7-H4 lysate as antigen 
was established to screen antibody-producing hybridoma cell lines. Western 
blott, immunoprecipitation (IP), and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were applied to 
characterize the mAb. Immunohistochemical staining was used to detect the 
expression of B7-H4 in human pancreatic cancer tissue. The correlation of B3-H4 
expressions and pathological features of pancreatic cancer was analyzed.
RESULTS: A hybridoma cell line secreting mAb against B7-H4 was obtained. The 
subclass of this mAb was IgM, and the light chain was Kappa. Western blot and IP 
showed that the mAb specifically recognized B7-H4. IHC staining revealed that 
the mAb stained in a predominantly diffuse plasmalemmal or cytoplasmic pattern 
when applied to certain tumor tissues. The B7-H4 was diffusely expressed in the 
cytoplasma and/or membrane of pancreatic cancer tissue, which was much higher 
than that expressed in normal pancreatic tissue (4.00 ± 1.44 compared with 1.12 
± 0.78, P ± 0.01). The expression of B7-H4 was higher in pancreatic cancer 
tissues with higher pathological grade or with lymph node metastasis as compared 
with that in pancreatic cancer tissues with lower grade or with no lymph mode 
metastasis (6.10 ± 0.72 compared with 3.55 ± 1.12,P<0.01: 6.14 ± 0.66 compared 
with 3.70 ± 1.25,P<0.01). The expression level of B7-H4 was not related to 
patients'age and gender.
CONCLUSION: Monoclonal antibody against B7-H4 with high activity and specificity 
has been prepared successfully. The expression of B7-H4 in pancreatic cancer 
tissue is up-regulated,which is closely related to the tumor grade and lymph 
node metastasis in pancreatic cancer.

PMID: 24167131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Methods Mol Biol. 2014;1102:367-80. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-727-3_19.

B7-H abnormalities in melanoma and clinical relevance.

Seliger B(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Immunology, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, 
Halle, Germany.

Melanoma have been shown to escape immune surveillance by different mechanisms 
such as loss of HLA class I antigens, upregulation of nonclassical HLA-G antigen 
and Fas, increased secretion of immune suppressive cytokines and metabolites as 
well as altered expression of co-stimulatory and coinhibitory signals. Recently, 
an important role of B7-H1 and B7-H4 in the immune escape of melanoma has been 
described. High mRNA and/or protein expression levels of these coinhibitory 
molecules were detected in both melanoma cell lines and melanoma lesions when 
compared to melanocytes. However, their clinical relevance is currently 
controversially discussed regarding a correlation of B7-H family members with 
tumor grading and staging as well as survival of patients in melanoma.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-727-3_19
PMID: 24258988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Pancreatology. 2013 Nov-Dec;13(6):564-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pan.2013.10.005.
Epub  2013 Oct 23.

B7H4, HSP27 and DJ-1 molecular markers as prognostic factors in pancreatic 
cancer.

Tsiaousidou A(1), Lambropoulou M, Chatzitheoklitos E, Tripsianis G, Tsompanidou 
C, Simopoulos C, Tsaroucha AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, General Hospital 'Agios Dimitrios', Thessaloniki, 
Greece; 2nd Department of Surgery and Laboratory of Experimental Surgery, 
Faculty of Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece. 
Electronic address: natasha_tsia@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVES: Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most lethal tumors of the 
gastrointestinal tract. The ability to predict which patients would benefit most 
from surgical intervention and chemotherapy would be a great clinical tool. A 
large number of potential markers have been identified lately in pancreatic 
cancer and their clinical utilities as prognostic tools are under investigation.
METHODS: We recruited 41 patients who had undergone radical surgical resection 
for PC between 2003 and 2010. To investigate the prognostic factors, we 
evaluated 3 possible markers: B7H4, HSP27 and DJ-1 protein expressions in the 
tissue specimens of these 41 patients by immunohistochemistry and analyzed the 
clinical and pathological features of these specimens.
RESULTS: The expression of the three antigens was independently associated with 
a negative impact of chemotherapy with gemcitabine on patient's survival. 
Moreover, patients who overexpressed B7H4 had worse prognosis than the ones who 
did not.
CONCLUSIONS: B7H4, DJ-1 and HSP27 may be used in the future as prognostic 
markers that express resistance of pancreatic cancer patients to chemotherapy 
with gemcitabine.

Copyright © 2013 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pan.2013.10.005
PMID: 24280570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. BMB Rep. 2014 Jul;47(7):399-404. doi: 10.5483/bmbrep.2014.47.7.168.

Inhibition of mouse SP2/0 myeloma cell growth by the B7-H4 protein vaccine.

Mu N(1), Liu N(2), Hao Q(1), Xu Y(1), Li J(1), Li W(1), Wu S(1), Zhang C(1), Su 
H(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cancer Biology, Biotechnology Center, School of 
Pharmacy, The Fourth Military Medical University, 17 Changle West Road, 710032 
Xi'an, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China.
(2)Experiment Teaching Center of Basic Medicine, The Fourth Military Medical 
University, 17 Changle West Road, 710032 Xi'an, Shaanxi, People's Republic of 
China.
(3)Department of Oncology, Tangdu Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, 
1 Xinsi Road, 710038, Xi'an, Shaanxi, People's Republic of China.

B7-H4 is a member of B7 family of co-inhibitory molecules and B7-H4 protein is 
found to be overexpressed in many human cancers and which is usually associated 
with poor survival. In this study, we developed a therapeutic vaccine made from 
a fusion protein composed of a tetanus toxoid (TT) T-helper cell epitope and 
human B7-H4IgV domain (TT-rhB7-H4IgV). We investigated the anti-tumor effect of 
the TT-rhB7-H4IgV vaccine in BALB/c mice and SP2/0 myeloma growth was 
significantly suppressed in mice. The TT-rhB7-H4IgV vaccine induced high-titer 
specific antibodies in mice. Further, the antibodies induced by TT-rhB7-H4IgV 
vaccine were capable of depleting SP2/0 cells through complement-dependent 
cytotoxicity (CDC) in vitro. On the other hand, the poor cellular immune 
response was irrelevant to the therapeutic efficacy. These results indicate that 
the recombinant TT-rhB7-H4IgV vaccine might be a useful candidate of 
immunotherapy for the treatment of some tumors associated with abnormal 
expression of B7-H4.

DOI: 10.5483/bmbrep.2014.47.7.168
PMCID: PMC4163849
PMID: 24314141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Pancreas. 2014 Jan;43(1):128-34. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0b013e31829695d2.

B7-H4 expression in normal and diseased human islet β cells.

Cheung SS(1), Ou D, Metzger DL, Meloche M, Ao Z, Ng SS, Owen D, Warnock GL.

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of *Surgery and †Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, 
‡Department of Experimental Therapeutics, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
University of British Columbia; and §British Columbia Cancer Agency; and 
∥Department of Pathology, Vancouver General Hospital, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: B7-H4 is a negative coregulatory molecule known to be involved in 
immune response. We study here B7-H4 expression and its possible role in 
diabetes and cancer development.
METHODS: Formalin-fixed, paraffin-processed pancreas samples from patients with 
type 1 diabetes (T1D), insulinoma, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), and 
normal organ donors were studied by bright-field and multifluorescence 
immunohistochemistry to examine B7-H4 expression and its colocalization with 
islet endocrine hormones. Quantitative RT-PCR and Western blot assay were used 
to examine B7-H4 mRNA and protein expression in the islet and exocrine tissues 
from normal donors and pancreatic cancer cell lines.
RESULTS: B7-H4 protein expression in islet β cells is decreased in T1D and PDAC, 
but increased in insulinoma patients when compared to normal controls; the 
changes in B7-H4 expression are concomitant with insulin expression on the islet 
β cells. The insulin/B7-H4 colocalization on the β cells, expressed in 
colocalization coefficient Pearson r, is also changed in these islets.
CONCLUSIONS: Our observation of altered B7-H4 expression, concomitant with 
insulin expression, in the pancreatic islets of T1D, PDAC, and insulinoma 
patients when compared to normal controls suggests that B7-H4 pathway might play 
an important role in maintenance of β-cell function, but its exact role remains 
to be explored.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0b013e31829695d2
PMID: 24326367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Jun;73(6):1198-201. doi:
10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204466.  Epub 2013 Dec 17.

Genetic variation in VTCN1 (B7-H4) is associated with course of disease in 
juvenile idiopathic arthritis.

Albers HM(1), Reinards TH, Brinkman DM, Kamphuis SS, van Rossum MA, Hoppenreijs 
EP, Girschick HJ, Wouters C, Saurenmann RK, Bakker E, Verduijn W, Slagboom P, 
Huizinga TW, Toes RE, Houwing-Duistermaat JJ, ten Cate R, Schilham MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics/Paediatric Rheumatology, Leiden University Medical 
Center, , Leiden, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The course of disease in juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is 
unpredictable with episodes of activity and remission. In order to identify 
predictive factors, 93 SNPs, JIA subtype, age at onset and ANA status were 
studied in relation to disease course.
METHODS: Genetic and clinical parameters were analysed in a cohort of 272 
Caucasian patients with persistent oligoarthritis (n=129), extended 
oligoarthritis (n=57) and rheumatoid factor negative polyarthritis (n=86). 
Categories of disease course (remitting (n=65), intermediate (n=96) and 
unremitting (n=111)) were designed based on the cumulative time spent in active 
disease in the first 2 years.
RESULTS: Univariate analysis revealed association of the course of disease with 
JIA subtype (p=5.7*10(-5)) and three SNPs; VTCN1 rs10 923 223 (p=4.4*10(-5)), 
VTCN1 rs12 046 117 (p=0.017) and CDK6 rs42 041 (p=0.038). In a subsequent 
multivariate ordinal logistic regression analysis, VTCN1 rs10 923 223 (OR 0.41, 
95%-CI 0.26 to 0.63) and JIA subtype (OR 3.8, 95%-CI 2.0 to 7.2; OR 2.5, 95%-CI 
1.4 to 4.2, for extended oligoarthritis and RF-negative polyarthritis vs 
persistent oligoarthritis, respectively) were the strongest independent factors 
for course of disease.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides evidence that VTCN1, encoding B7-H4, is 
associated with course of disease in selected subtypes of JIA. VTCN1 might be 
useful in predicting the course of disease.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204466
PMID: 24347572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Mol Clin Oncol. 2014 Mar;2(2):219-225. doi: 10.3892/mco.2013.225. Epub 2013
Dec  12.

B7-H4 overexpression correlates with a poor prognosis for cervical cancer 
patients.

Liu W(1), Shibata K(2), Koya Y(3), Kajiyama H(2), Senga T(4), Yamashita M(1), 
Kikkawa F(2).

Author information:
(1)Bell Research Center for Reproductive Health and Cancer, Kishokai Medical 
Corporation, Nagoya, Aichi 458-0801, Japan.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Nagoya University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Nagoya, Aichi 466-8550, Japan.
(3)Bio-Databases Institute of Reproductive and Developmental Medicine, Nagoya, 
Aichi 458-0801, Japan.
(4)Division of Cancer Biology, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Nagoya, Aichi 466-8550, Japan.

Cervical cancer is a major global public health care concern and the second most 
commonly diagnosed malignancy among females worldwide. B7-H4 is an 
immunoregulatory protein that has been shown to be overexpressed in several 
types of cancer and is often associated with more advanced disease and poor 
prognosis. We investigated whether B7-H4 is a prognostic maker for cervical 
cancer by detecting its expression in cervical cancer specimens. Formalin-fixed, 
paraffin-embedded tissue blocks from cervical cancer were evaluated for B7-H4 
expression by immunohistochemistry with free R software analysis. The intensity 
of B7-H4 immunoexpression was evaluated according to age, histological type, 
International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage, 
lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI) and lymph node status. We investigated the 
distribution and expression of B7-H4 in 102 cervical cancer specimens and 
determined the association between its expression and clinicopathological 
characteristics, including patient outcomes. Of the 102 specimens, 31 were found 
to be negative for B7-H4 immunoexpression, whereas 71 were B7-H4-positive. When 
classified by negative vs. positive expression, B7-H4 was not found to be 
associated with any of the clinicopathological parameters investigated. A 
positive B7-H4 expression significantly predicted poor overall survival (OS) 
when compared to negative expression (P<0.05). In the multivariate analysis, 
positive B7-H4 expression was identified as an independent prognostic factor for 
OS (P<0.05). Our data suggested that positive B7-H4 expression may be a useful 
biomarker in patients with cervical cancer likely to have an unfavorable 
clinical outcome.

DOI: 10.3892/mco.2013.225
PMCID: PMC3917766
PMID: 24649336


155. Gynecol Oncol. 2014 Jul;134(1):181-189. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2014.03.553.
Epub  2014 Mar 20.

B7-H4 as a potential target for immunotherapy for gynecologic cancers: a closer 
look.

Smith JB(#)(1), Stashwick C(#)(2), Powell DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Ovarian Cancer Research Center, Department of Pathology and Laboratory 
Medicine, Abramson Cancer Center, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hospital of the University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

B7-H4 is a transmembrane protein that binds an unknown receptor on activated T 
cells resulting in inhibition of T-cell effector function via cell cycle arrest, 
decreased proliferation, and reduced IL-2 production. B7-H4 is up-regulated on 
the surface of cancer cells and immunosuppressive tumor-associated macrophages 
(TAMs) in a variety of human cancers. Notably, B7-H4 expression levels inversely 
correlate with patient survival in ovarian cancer, making B7-H4 an attractive 
candidate for therapeutic intervention. Here, we summarize the experimental data 
and methodologies that have revealed B7-H4's mRNA and protein expression and 
function in both mice and humans since its discovery in 2003, with a specific 
focus on B7-H4's role in ovarian cancer. We also underscore the discrepancies in 
published data due to high variability in methodology and use of different 
antibodies, most of which are not commercially available. Finally, since B7-H4 
is expressed on tumor cells and TAMs in various cancer types, directing 
therapeutics against B7-H4 could have tremendous synergistic outcomes in 
favorably altering the tumor micro-environment and eliminating cancer cells. We 
highlight the therapeutic potential of targeting B7-H4, both by comparing other 
negative immune modulators such as PD-1 and CTLA-4 and by identifying novel 
methods to target B7-H4 directly or indirectly to overcome B7-H4-mediated T-cell 
inhibition.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2014.03.553
PMCID: PMC4066406
PMID: 24657487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2014 Jun;63(6):545-57. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-014-1537-8.

Mapping the immunosuppressive environment in uterine tumors: implications for 
immunotherapy.

Vanderstraeten A, Luyten C, Verbist G, Tuyaerts S, Amant F.

The major hurdle for cancer vaccines to be effective is posed by tumor immune 
evasion. Several common immune mechanisms and mediators are exploited by tumors 
to avoid immune destruction. In an attempt to shed more light on the 
immunosuppressive environment in uterine tumors, we analyzed the presence of 
PD-L1, PDL2, B7-H4, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), galectin- 1, galectin-3, 
arginase-1 activity and myeloid-derived suppressor cell (MDSC) infiltration. 
IDO, PD-L1, PD-L2 and B7-H4 were analyzed by immunohistochemistry. PDL2 was 
mostly expressed at low levels in these tumors. We found high IDO expression in 
21 % of endometrial carcinoma samples and in 14 % of uterine sarcoma samples. 
For PD-L1 and B7-H4, we found high expression in 92 and 90 % of endometrial 
cancers, respectively, and in 100 and 92 % of the sarcomas. Galectin-1 and 3 
were analyzed in tissue lysates by ELISA, but we did not find an increase in 
both molecules in tumor lysates compared with benign tissues. We detected 
expression of galectin-3 by fibroblasts, immune cells and tumor cells in 
single-cell tumor suspensions. In addition, we noted a highly significant 
increase in arginase-1 activity in endometrial carcinomas compared with normal 
endometria, which was not the case for uterine sarcomas. Finally, we could 
demonstrate MDSC infiltration in fresh tumor suspensions from uterine tumors. 
These results indicate that the PD-1/PD-L1 interaction and B7-H4 could be 
possible targets for immune intervention in uterine cancer patients as well as 
mediation of MDSC function. These observations are another step toward the 
implementation of inhibitors of immunosuppression in the treatment of uterine 
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-014-1537-8
PMCID: PMC4024136
PMID: 24658839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Pflugers Arch. 2014 Dec;466(12):2323-38. doi: 10.1007/s00424-014-1493-3.

B7-H4 downregulation induces mitochondrial dysfunction and enhances doxorubicin 
sensitivity via the cAMP/CREB/PGC1-α signaling pathway in HeLa cells.

Kim HK, Song IS, Lee SY, Jeong SH, Lee SR, Heo HJ, Thu VT, Kim N, Ko KS, Rhee 
BD, Jeong DH, Kim YN, Han J.

B7-H4 is a B7 family coregulatory protein that inhibits T cell-mediated 
immunity. B7-H4 is overexpressed in various cancers; however, the functional 
role of B7-H4 in cancer metabolism is poorly understood. Because mitochondria 
play pivotal roles in development, proliferation, and death of cancer cells, we 
investigated molecular and functional alterations of mitochondria in 
B7-H4-depleted HeLa cells. In a human study, overexpression of B7-H4 was 
confirmed in the cervices of adenocarcinoma patients (n = 3) compared to 
noncancer patients (n = 3). In the cell line model, B7-H4 depletion was 
performed by transfection with small interfering RNA (siRNA). B7-H4 depletion 
suppressed oxygen consumption rate, ATP production, and mitochondrial membrane 
potential and mass and increased reactive oxygen species production. In 
particular, electron transport complex III activity was significantly impaired 
in siB7-H4-treated cells. Coincidently, depletion of B7-H4 suppressed major 
mitochondrial regulators (peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma 
coactivator 1-alpha [PGC1-α] and mitochondrial transcription factor A), a 
component of oxidative phosphorylation (ubiquinol-cytochrome c reductase core 
protein 1), and an antiapoptosis protein (Bcl-XL). Mitochondrial dysfunction in 
siRNA-treated cells significantly augmented oxidative stress, which strongly 
activated the JNK/P38/caspase axis in the presence of doxorubicin, resulting in 
increased apoptotic cell death. Investigating the mechanism of B7-H4-mediated 
mitochondrial modulation, we found that B7-H4 depletion significantly 
downregulated the cAMP/cAMP response element-binding protein/PGC1-α signaling 
pathway. Based on these findings, we conclude that B7-H4 has a role in the 
regulation of mitochondrial function, which is closely related to cancer cell 
physiology and drug sensitivity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-014-1493-3
PMID: 24658911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Oncol Lett. 2014 May;7(5):1474-1478. doi: 10.3892/ol.2014.1961. Epub 2014
Mar  11.

B7-H4 expression and its role in interleukin-2/interferon treatment of clear 
cell renal cell carcinoma.

Xu Y(1), Zhu S(1), Song M(2), Liu W(3), Liu C(4), Li Y(5), Wang M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310022, 
P.R. China.
(2)Department of Ultrasonography, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
310022, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Urology, Fujian Medical University Second Affiliated Hospital, 
Quanzhou, Fujian 362000, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Urology, Lu'an Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical University, 
Lu'an, Anhui 237005, P.R. China.
(5)Department of Urology, The Union Hospital of Fujian Medical University, 
Fuzhou, Fujian 350001, P.R. China.
(6)Institute of Ophthalmology, Shandong Academy of Medical Sciences, Qingdao, 
Shandong 266071, P.R. China.

The immunological mechanism mediated by T cells is the main therapeutic target 
in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) with interleukin (IL)-2 and 
interferon (IFN)-α. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the role of 
B7-H4 in the IL-2, IFN-α and IFN-γ treatment of clear cell RCC (ccRCC). A total 
of 154 paraffin-embedded ccRCC tissues were studied using immunohistochemistry, 
which subsequently indicated that positive B7-H4 expression is associated with 
adverse clinical features in ccRCC. The effects of IL-2, IFN-α and IFN-γ on 
B7-H4 expression in a ccRCC cell line were evaluated at the mRNA and protein 
levels. In addition, the effect of B7-H4 on the killing activity of T cells was 
detected. B7-H4 expression was identified to be upregulated by IL-2, IFN-α and 
IFN-γ, of which, IFN-γ was the most capable. Additionally, blocking of 
B7-H4/B7-H4 ligand interactions may rescue the killing activity of T cells. 
Altogether, the observations of the current study showed that the immune escape 
pathway induced by B7-H4 may be one of the most important reasons for the low 
efficacy of IL-2 and IFN-α and the inability to observe the efficacy of IFN-γ in 
mRCC. This indicates that B7-H4 may be used as a new molecular biology marker to 
select treatment options for patients with ccRCC.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2014.1961
PMCID: PMC3997729
PMID: 24765159


159. Int J Clin Oncol. 2015 Apr;20(2):273-81. doi: 10.1007/s10147-014-0701-7.
Epub  2014 May 9.

Expression of costimulatory molecules B7-H1, B7-H4 and Foxp3+ Tregs in gastric 
cancer and its clinical significance.

Geng Y(1), Wang H, Lu C, Li Q, Xu B, Jiang J, Wu C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
185 Juqian Street, Changzhou, 213003, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.

OBJECTIVE: Immune escape plays an important role in tumor progression. In the 
present study, the expression of B7-H1, B7-H4 and Foxp3 involved in immune 
escape in gastric carcinoma was investigated and the corresponding clinical 
significance was evaluated.
METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of B7-H1, B7-H4 
and Foxp3 in 100 gastric cancer specimens, and 30 paracarcinoma tissues were 
used as the control.
RESULTS: Both B7-H1 and B7-H4 showed high expression levels in gastric cancer 
tissues (65.0 and 71.0 %, respectively), and the expressions of B7-H1 and B7-H4 
were positively correlated with the depth of tumor invasion, lymph node 
metastasis and American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) stage (P < 0.05). The 
number of Foxp3(+) Tregs was much higher in gastric cancer tissues than control 
tissues, which was positively correlated with lymph node metastasis (P < 0.05). 
Similarly, a positive correlation between B7-H1 or B7-H4 expression and the 
number of Foxp3(+) Tregs was observed. The median overall survival rate of 
patients with high expression of B7-H1, B7-H4 and Foxp3 was significantly poorer 
than that of patients with low expression of these proteins (P < 0.05). Cox 
regression multivariate analysis confirmed that lymph node metastasis, AJCC 
stage, and B7-H1 and Foxp3 overexpression were independent prognostic factors.
CONCLUSION: B7-H1, B7-H4 and Foxp3 were overexpressed in gastric cancer tissues. 
B7-H1 and Foxp3 are negative prognostic factors for patients with gastric 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10147-014-0701-7
PMID: 24804867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Diabetes. 2014 Oct;63(10):3470-82. doi: 10.2337/db14-0213. Epub 2014 May 21.

Nardilysin-dependent proteolysis of cell-associated VTCN1 (B7-H4) marks type 1 
diabetes development.

Radichev IA(1), Maneva-Radicheva LV(1), Amatya C(1), Parker C(1), Ellefson J(1), 
Wasserfall C(2), Atkinson M(2), Burn P(1), Savinov AY(3).

Author information:
(1)Sanford Project/Children's Health Research Center at Sanford Research, Sioux 
Falls, SD Department of Pediatrics, University of South Dakota School of 
Medicine, Sioux Falls, SD.
(2)Department of Pathology, College of Medicine, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL.
(3)Sanford Project/Children's Health Research Center at Sanford Research, Sioux 
Falls, SD Department of Pediatrics, University of South Dakota School of 
Medicine, Sioux Falls, SD alexei.savinov@sanfordhealth.org.

T-cell responses directed against insulin-secreting pancreatic β-cells are the 
key events highlighting type 1 diabetes (T1D). Therefore, a defective control of 
T-cell activation is thought to underlie T1D development. Recent studies 
implicated a B7-like negative costimulatory protein, V-set domain-containing 
T-cell activation inhibitor-1 (VTCN1), as a molecule capable of inhibiting 
T-cell activation and, potentially, an important constituent in experimental 
models of T1D. Here, we unravel a general deficiency within the VTCN1 pathway 
that is shared between diabetes-prone mice and a subset of T1D patients. Gradual 
loss of membrane-tethered VTCN1 from antigen-presenting cells combined with an 
increased release of soluble VTCN1 (sVTCN1) occurs in parallel to natural T1D 
development, potentiating hyperproliferation of diabetogenic T cells. 
Mechanistically, we demonstrate that the loss of membrane-tethered VTCN1 is 
linked to proteolytic cleavage mediated by the metalloproteinase nardilysin. The 
cleaved sVTCN1 fragment was detected at high levels in the peripheral blood of 
53% T1D patients compared with only 9% of the healthy subjects. Elevated blood 
sVTCN1 levels appeared early in the disease progression and correlated with the 
aggressive pace of disease, highlighting the potential use of sVTCN1 as a new 
T1D biomarker, and identifying nardilysin as a potential therapeutic target.

© 2014 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as 
long as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, 
and the work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/db14-0213
PMCID: PMC4171653
PMID: 24848066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. J Transl Med. 2014 May 30;12:151. doi: 10.1186/1479-5876-12-151.

Synergistic effects of IL-4 and TNFα on the induction of B7-H1 in renal cell 
carcinoma cells inhibiting allogeneic T cell proliferation.

Quandt D, Jasinski-Bergner S, Müller U, Schulze B, Seliger B(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Immunology, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg, 
Magdeburger Str, 2, Halle 06112, Germany. barbara.seliger@uk-halle.de.

BACKGROUND: The importance of B7-H molecules for the T cell/tumor communication 
and its impact on renal cell carcinoma (RCC) progression and prognosis has been 
recently described. Cytokine treatment of RCC has earlier been shown to be 
beneficial in preclinical settings, but its clinical implementation has not 
proven to be as effective. This might be partially explained by the yet 
incomplete picture of cellular alterations in tumor cells upon cytokine 
treatment investigated in detail in this study.
METHODS: RCC tumor cell lines were treated with different cytokines alone or in 
combination. The constitutive and/or cytokine-induced expression of cytokine 
receptors signaling components and B7-H molecules in RCC cells were analysed by 
qPCR and flow cytometry. A mcherry reporter gene construct containing B7-H1 
promoter was cloned and its activity was determined upon transfection in 
cytokine-stimulated cells. Cytokine pretreated tumor cells were co-cultured with 
allogeneic CD8+ T cells from healthy donors and T cell proliferation as well as 
cytokine secretion was determined.
RESULTS: A heterogeneous, but constitutive B7-H1,-H2,-H3 and H4 expression was 
found on human RCC cell lines. IL-4 and TNFα treatment led to strong synergistic 
induction of B7-H1 in RCC cells, whereas B7-H2 was only increased by TNFα. In 
contrast, B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression were not altered by these cytokines. 
Treatment of RCC cells with TNFα and IL-4 was accompanied by an activation of 
signaling molecules like NF-κB, IκB and STAT6. The cytokine-mediated 
up-regulation of B7-H1 was due to transcriptional control as determined by an 
increased B7-H1 promoter activity in the presence of IL-4 and TNFα. Despite HLA 
class I and LFA-1 were also increased, the cytokine-mediated up-regulation of 
B7-H1 was more pronounced and caused an inhibition of allospecifc CD8+ T cell 
proliferation.
CONCLUSION: Thus, IL-4 and TNFα, which could be released by immune cells of the 
tumor microenvironment, are able to control the B7-H1 expression in RCC thereby 
altering T cell responses. These data are of importance for understanding the 
complex interplay of tumor cells with immune cells orchestrated by a number of 
different soluble and membrane bound mediators and for the implementation of 
check point antibodies directed against B7-H1.

DOI: 10.1186/1479-5876-12-151
PMCID: PMC4079621
PMID: 24885059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. World J Surg Oncol. 2014 Jun 19;12:188. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-12-188.

Serum B7-H4 expression is a significant prognostic indicator for patients with 
gastric cancer.

Shi H, Ji M, Wu J, Zhou Q, Li X, Li Z, Zheng X, Xu B, Zhao W, Wu C(1), Jiang J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
185 Juqian Street, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu Province, People's Republic of 
China. czsdyrmyyzlk@163.com.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4 is a novel B7 ligand that plays an important role in the T 
cell-mediated immune response as a negative regulator. Previous studies have 
suggested the aberrant expression of membrane B7-H4 in tumor cells. The aim of 
this study is to determine the expression levels of preoperative soluble B7-H4 
(sB7-H4) in circulation and to investigate the correlations between sB7-H4 
levels and clinicopathological parameters as well as the survival rate of 
patients with gastric cancer.
METHODS: Blood specimens from 132 patients with gastric cancer and 63 healthy 
volunteers were analyzed by sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
RESULTS: Median concentrations of sB7-H4 in patients with gastric cancer were 
significantly higher than those in healthy volunteers (16.85 versus 10.46 ng/mL; 
P = 0.008). Median levels of sB7-H4 were significantly correlated with tumor 
size, lymph node metastasis, the depth of tumor invasion and 
tumor-node-metastasis classification (P = 0.002, P = 0.001, P = 0.041 and P 
<0.001, respectively), but not with sex, age, tumor location or histological 
subtype (all P >0.05). Additionally, the overall survival rate was significantly 
lower in patients with high sB7-H4 levels when compared with low sB7-H4 levels 
(50.0% versus 77.3%, χ2 = 10.78, P = 0.001). Moreover, multivariate analysis 
demonstrated that the risk of death was significantly higher in patients with 
high sB7-H4 levels than in those with low sB7-H4 levels (P = 0.039).
CONCLUSIONS: sB7-H4 is a valuable blood marker for predicting the progression 
and prognosis of patients with gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-12-188
PMCID: PMC4076248
PMID: 24947047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Acta Histochem. 2014 Sep;116(7):1163-8. doi: 10.1016/j.acthis.2014.06.003.
Epub  2014 Jul 19.

B7-H1 and B7-H4 expression in colorectal carcinoma: correlation with tumor 
FOXP3(+) regulatory T-cell infiltration.

Zhao LW(1), Li C(2), Zhang RL(2), Xue HG(3), Zhang FX(3), Zhang F(2), Gai XD(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beihua University, 
Jilin, Jilin 132013, People's Republic of China; Department of Pathology, School 
of Basic Medical Sciences, Jilin Medical College, Jilin, Jilin 132013, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beihua University, 
Jilin, Jilin 132013, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Beihua University, Jilin, Jilin 
132013, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Beihua University, 
Jilin, Jilin 132013, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
bhdxgaixiaodong@126.com.

B7-H1 and B7-H4 are newly discovered members of the B7-CD28 family. They can 
inhibit T cell activation and proliferation and regulate T cell immune response 
negatively. Both B7-H1 and B7-H4 are expressed in many tumors and are classified 
as co-inhibitors of cell-mediated immunity. FOXP3(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs) 
play an important role in the maintenance of tumor immunity tolerance. However, 
the implication of B7-H1 and B7-H4 expression and their interaction with Tregs 
infiltration in colorectal cancer are unknown. The present study aimed to 
determine the expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 as well as Tregs infiltration in 
colorectal cancer and to explore the clinical and pathological implication of 
suppressor immune cells and molecules. Frozen sections and immunohistochemical 
assay were undertaken to assess B7-H1, B7-H4 expression and Tregs infiltration 
in fresh specimens collected from 56 patients with colorectal carcinoma. The 
results showed that expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 in colorectal carcinoma 
tissues was significantly higher than in adjacent normal mucosa (P<0.001). B7-H1 
expression was positively correlated to the infiltration depth, lymph node 
metastasis and advanced Duke's stage (P<0.05, P<0.05 and P<0.05, respectively), 
whereas B7-H4 expression was positively related to the infiltration depth and 
lymph node metastasis (P<0.01 and P<0.05, respectively). Furthermore, Tregs 
infiltration was more frequent in tumor tissue than in adjacent normal mucosa 
and was associated with poor differentiation and positive lymph node metastasis 
(P<0.01, and P<0.01, respectively). The statistical analysis indicated a 
significant correlation between Tregs infiltration and B7-H1 or B7-H4 expression 
respectively. These results suggest that over-expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 has 
stronger prognostic significance and promote tumor tolerance, and they might 
contribute to Tregs development in the colorectal carcinoma tolerogenic milieu.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acthis.2014.06.003
PMID: 25053455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Onco Targets Ther. 2014 Aug 19;7:1465-72. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S66809. eCollection 
2014.

The coexpression and clinical significance of costimulatory molecules B7-H1, 
B7-H3, and B7-H4 in human pancreatic cancer.

Chen Y(1), Sun J(2), Zhao H(1), Zhu D(1), Zhi Q(1), Song S(1), Zhang L(1), He 
S(1), Kuang Y(1), Zhang Z(1), Li D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Suzhou, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, People's Republic of 
China.

Retraction in
    Onco Targets Ther. 2022 Jun 23;15:699-700.

AIM: We investigated the expression of the inhibitory costimulatory molecules 
B7-H1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 in human pancreatic cancer to define their clinical 
significance and mechanism in a tumor microenvironment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Sixty-three pancreatic cancer tissues and 12 normal 
pancreatic tissues were examined in our research. Patients were enrolled in the 
study between December 2000 and August 2010. Expression levels of the B7 family 
of molecules and densities of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes in the tissues were 
characterized with immunohistochemical assays.
RESULTS: More than 50% of the patients expressed B7-H1 and B7-H4, and nearly 
100% of the patients expressed B7-H3. B7-H1 expression was correlated with tumor 
size, B7-H3 expression was correlated with lymph-node metastasis and 
differentiation grade, and B7-H4 expression was correlated with tumor size, 
lymph-node metastasis, and invasion depth. High B7-H4 expression was also 
correlated with poor survival in pancreatic cancer. We determined the value of 
these three B7 family molecules in the postoperative survival prognosis for 
patients with pancreatic cancer, and pancreatic cancer patients with less 
coexpression of the B7 family of molecules had a significantly higher survival 
rate. B7-H1 expression was found to be negatively related to the intensity of 
both CD3(+) T cells and CD8(+) T cells, and B7-H4 expression was negatively 
related to CD3(+) T-cell infiltration intensity, but not to CD8(+) T cells.
CONCLUSION: B7-H1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 are involved in pancreatic cancer 
progression, and their coexpression could be a valuable prognostic indicator. 
Negative regulation of T-cell infiltration might be the main mechanism of action 
of the B7 family of molecules in pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S66809
PMCID: PMC4145732
PMID: 25170273


165. Monoclon Antib Immunodiagn Immunother. 2014 Aug;33(4):270-4. doi: 
10.1089/mab.2013.0082.

Preparation and characterization of monoclonal antibody against human B7-H4 
molecule.

Zhang N(1), Fang P, Gu ZJ.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Soochow University , Suzhou, 
China .

B7-H4, a member of B7 family, is widely expressed in tumor tissues and plays an 
important role in the negative regulation of T cell immunity. In this study, we 
report on the establishment and characterization of a functional anti-human 
B7-H4 monoclonal antibody (MAb) 5G3 through hybridoma method. Flow cytometry 
analysis showed that MAb 5G3 specifically bound to B7-H4 molecule. Functional 
experiments indicated that MAb 5G3 could block the inhibitory role of B7-H4 
molecule on A549 cells in and reduce the apoptosis of Jurkat cells, suggesting 
that MAb 5G3 is an antagonistic antibody and a useful tool for further studies 
of B7-H4 functions in cancers.

DOI: 10.1089/mab.2013.0082
PMID: 25171007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Zhejiang Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2014 Jul;43(4):480-5. doi: 
10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2014.06.006.

[Research progress of negative costimulator B7-H4 in urologic tumors].

[Article in Chinese]

Tao Y(1), Hong M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Urology, Second Hospital of Lanzhou University, Gansu Provincial 
Key Laboratory of Urological Diseases, Gansu Nephro-Urological Clinical Center, 
Lanzhou 730030, China.

B7-H4 is a recently-identified member of B7 costimulation superfamily. B7-H4 
serves as an inhibitory modulator of T cell response through suppressing the 
proliferation, activation, and cytokine production of T cells. B7-H4 is found to 
be abnormally expressed in multiple human tumors. Many studies have shown that 
B7-H4 expression is closely related to the progression and prognosis of urologic 
tumors. Investigation of B7-H4 function will provide new strategies for 
diagnosis and immunotherapy of urologic tumors. This article reviews the recent 
progress of B7-H4 research in urologic tumors.

DOI: 10.3785/j.issn.1008-9292.2014.06.006
PMID: 25187465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. J Invest Dermatol. 2015 Feb;135(2):435-444. doi: 10.1038/jid.2014.419. Epub
2014  Sep 24.

Activation of the arylhydrocarbon receptor causes immunosuppression primarily by 
modulating dendritic cells.

Bruhs A(1), Haarmann-Stemmann T(2), Frauenstein K(2), Krutmann J(2), Schwarz 
T(1), Schwarz A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Kiel University, Kiel, Germany.
(2)Institut für Umweltmedizinische Forschung (IUF), Heinrich-Heine-University 
Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Kiel University, Kiel, Germany. 
Electronic address: tschwarz@dermatology.uni-kiel.de.

UVR suppresses the immune system in an antigen-specific manner via induction of 
regulatory T cells (Tregs). The specific immunosuppression by UVR harbors 
therapeutic potential but is associated with UVR-induced DNA damage, requiring 
the identification of other triggers inducing the same immunosuppressive effects 
without DNA damage. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) was identified as a 
molecular target for UVR and its activation to be involved in UVR-induced 
immunosuppression. Accordingly, the AhR agonist 4-n-nonylphenol (NP) suppressed 
sensitization and induced Treg similar to UVR. Here we show that 
antigen-presenting cells are critically involved in AhR-induced 
immunosuppression. Injection of hapten-coupled dendritic cells (DCs) treated 
with NP into mice did not result in sensitization but induced Treg. NP induced 
the release of IL-2 by DC that subsequently triggered the release of IL-10. NP 
upregulated the negative regulatory molecule B7-H4 via the release of IL-2 that 
was functionally relevant as inhibition of B7-H4 prevented the induction of 
Treg. Together, this indicates that activation of the AhR switches 
antigen-presenting cells from a stimulatory into a regulatory phenotype, 
ultimately inducing Treg. Thus, AhR agonists may represent an alternative to 
suppress the immune system like UVR but without causing the adverse effects of 
UVR including DNA damage.

DOI: 10.1038/jid.2014.419
PMID: 25251932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Tumour Biol. 2014 Dec;35(12):11837-43. doi: 10.1007/s13277-014-2410-2. Epub
2014  Sep 27.

Impact of neoadjuvant chemotherapy on lymphocytes and co-inhibitory B7-H4 
molecule in gastric cancer: low B7-H4 expression associates with favorable 
prognosis.

Maskey N(1), Li K, Hu M, Xu Z, Peng C, Yu F, Cao H, Chen J, Li Y, Yang G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan University, Donghu Road 
169, Wuchang District, Wuhan, 430071, People's Republic of China.

Little is known on the immune response after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) in 
gastric cancer (GC). The present study aimed to investigate the effects of NACT 
on tumor cells and tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in patients with GC. 
Expressions of CD4+ and CD8+ TILs and identified co-inhibitory B7-H4 molecule 
were examined by immunohistochemical staining in GC tissues of 56 patients who 
received NACT (NACT group) and 46 patients who did not receive NACT (nNACT 
group). These markers, clinicopathological features, and overall survival (OS) 
time between both groups were compared. Results showed that the 
clinicopathological features of patients were not significantly associated with 
NACT (P > 0.05), but the rate of low expression of B7-H4 (78.6 vs. 47.8 %, 
P = 0.005) and rate of high expression of CD4+ TILs (58.9 vs. 39.1 %, P = 0.048) 
and CD8+ TILs (92.9 vs. 56.5 %, P < 0.001) were both significantly higher in 
NACT group than that in nNACT group. Further, Kaplan-Meier analysis indicated 
that there was no significant difference in OS time between the groups. However, 
in NACT group, those with low B7-H4 expression had significantly longer OS 
(P = 0.031). The study findings suggest that low expression of B7-H4 could serve 
as a candidate biomarker for predicting response to NACT and could provide 
favorable prognostic information in GC.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-014-2410-2
PMID: 25260881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Stem Cell Rev Rep. 2015 Jun;11(3):423-41. doi: 10.1007/s12015-014-9562-8.

Human Chorionic Villous Mesenchymal Stem Cells Modify the Functions of Human 
Dendritic Cells, and Induce an Anti-Inflammatory Phenotype in CD1+ Dendritic 
Cells.

Abomaray FM(1), Al Jumah MA, Kalionis B, AlAskar AS, Al Harthy S, Jawdat D, Al 
Khaldi A, Alkushi A, Knawy BA, Abumaree MH.

Author information:
(1)King Abdullah International Medical Research Center, P.O. Box 22490, Riyadh, 
11426, Mail Code 1515, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem cells derived from the chorionic villi of human 
term placenta (pMSCs) have drawn considerable interest because of their 
multipotent differentiation potential and their immunomodulatory capacity. These 
properties are the foundation for their clinical application in the fields of 
stem cell transplantation and regenerative medicine. Previously, we showed that 
pMSCs induce an anti-inflammatory phenotype in human macrophages. In this study, 
we determined whether pMSCs modify the differentiation and maturation of human 
monocytes into dendritic cells (DCs). The consequences on dendritic function and 
on T cell proliferation were also investigated.
METHODS: Interleukin-4 (IL-4) and granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating 
factor (GM-CSF) were used to stimulate the differentiation of monocytes into 
immature dendritic cells (iDCs), which were subsequently co-cultured with pMSCs. 
Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was used to induce maturation of iDCs into mature 
dendritic cells (mDCs). Flow cytometry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays 
(ELISA) were used to quantify the effect pMSC co-culturing on DC differentiation 
using CD1a, a distinctive marker of DCs, as well as other molecules important in 
the immune functions of DCs. The phagocytic activity of iDCs co-cultured with 
pMSCs, and the effects of iDCs and mDC stimulation on T cell proliferation, were 
also investigated.
RESULTS: Monocyte differentiation into iDCs was inhibited when co-cultured with 
pMSCs and maturation of iDCs by LPS treatment was also prevented in the presence 
of pMSCs as demonstrated by reduced expression of CD1a and CD83, respectively. 
The inhibitory effect of pMSCs on iDC differentiation was dose dependent. In 
addition, pMSC co-culture with iDCs and mDCs resulted in both phenotypic and 
functional changes as shown by reduced expression of costimulatory molecules 
(CD40, CD80, CD83 and CD86) and reduced capacity to stimulate CD4(+) T cell 
proliferation. In addition, pMSC co-culture increased the surface expression of 
major histocompatibility complex (MHC-II) molecules on iDCs but decreased MHC-II 
expression on mDCs. Moreover, pMSC co-culture with iDCs or mDCs increased the 
expression of immunosuppressive molecules [B7H3, B7H4, CD273, CD274 and 
indoleamine-pyrrole 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO). Additionally, the secretion of IL-12 
and IL-23 by iDCs and mDCs co-cultured with pMSCs was decreased. Furthermore, 
pMSC co-culture with mDCs decreased the secretion of IL-12 and INF-γ whilst 
increasing the secretion of IL-10 in a T cell proliferation experiment. Finally, 
pMSC co-culture with iDCs induced the phagocytic activity of iDCs.
CONCLUSIONS: We have shown that pMSCs have an inhibitory effect on the 
differentiation, maturation and function of DCs, as well as on the proliferation 
of T cells, suggesting that pMSCs can control the immune responses at multiple 
levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s12015-014-9562-8
PMID: 25287760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Oncol Lett. 2014 Dec;8(6):2527-2534. doi: 10.3892/ol.2014.2522. Epub 2014
Sep  11.

B7-H4 expression in bladder urothelial carcinoma and immune escape mechanisms.

Liu WH(1), Chen YY(2), Zhu SX(3), Li YN(1), Xu YP(3), Wu XJ(4), Guo YH(1), Wang 
JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urinary Surgery, Second Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, Fujian 362000, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Stomatology, Second Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University, Quanzhou, Fujian 362000, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Urinary Surgery, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
310022, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, Fuzhou, 
Fujian 350001, P.R. China.

B7-H4 is a recently identified member of the B7 family considered to negatively 
regulate the immune response, and has been associated with the occurrence and 
development of certain types of tumor. However, little is known regarding the 
importance of human B7-H4 expression in bladder urothelial carcinoma. In the 
present study, B7-H4 expression in the tissues and sera of patients with bladder 
urothelial carcinoma was investigated, along with the clinical significance. In 
addition, the effects of activated T-lymphocyte in vitro cytotoxicity in the 
BIU-87 bladder cancer cell line following the blockade of the B7-H4 signaling 
pathway were also analyzed. The results showed that in normal bladder tissues, 
B7-H4 was not detected, but in the bladder urothelial carcinoma tissue samples, 
B7-H4 was detected in 24/49 (49.0%) specimens. Additionally, positive B7-H4 
expression was significantly associated with increased TNM stage and 
pathological grade (P<0.05). Compared with the healthy control group, the 
serum-B7-H4 (sB7-H4) concentrations in the patients were also significantly 
increased (P<0.05). The sB7-H4 concentrations in cases with high-grade histology 
were significantly higher than those in patients with low-grade histology 
(P<0.05). Following the blockade of the B7-H4 antigen in BIU-87 cells, the 
cytotoxic activity of activated T cells against such BIU-87 cells was 
significantly enhanced compared with that against the control BIU-87 cells. This 
occurred in a T cell density-dependent and blocking antibody dose-dependent 
manner. These observations suggest that B7-H4 is involved in tumor occurrence, 
and the development and immune escape of bladder urothelial carcinoma cells. 
Therefore, B7-H4 may be an important target in the diagnosis and/or treatment of 
bladder urothelial carcinoma.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2014.2522
PMCID: PMC4214455
PMID: 25364421


171. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Nov;30(11):1121-4.

[Inhibition of PI3K/AKT signaling pathway promotes the nuclear translocation of 
B7-H4].

[Article in Chinese]

Song H(1), Xie W(2), Lian Q(1), Chen M(1), Xu R(1), Zeng S(1), Zhang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, School of Pharmaceutical Science, School of Basic 
Medicine and Life Sciences, Medical College, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, 
China.
(2)Department of Immunology, School of Basic Medicine and Life Sciences, Medical 
College, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the regulatory effect of 
phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling pathway on 
the subcellular distribution of negative co-stimulatory molecule B7-H4.
METHODS: The HEK293 cells transfected stably with B7-H4, named B7-H4/HEK293, 
were treated with the PI3K/AKT specific inhibitor LY294002 and/or the nuclear 
export inhibitor leptomycin B (LMB). The subcellular localization of B7-H4 in 
B7-H4/HEK293 was observed by immunofluorescence and confocal laser scanning 
microscopy (CLSM), and the expression levels of B7-H4 in membrane, cytoplasm and 
nuclear were detected by Western blotting.
RESULTS: CLSM showed that LY294002 effectively induced the nuclear translocation 
of B7-H4 when compared with vehicle group. When the B7-H4/HEK293 cells were 
treated with LY294002 and LMB, more B7-H4 was translocated into nuclear. Western 
blotting demonstrated that after the PI3K/AKT signal pathway was inhibited by 
LY294002 for 24 hours, the levels of B7-H4 in cell membrane and cytoplasm 
decreased significantly (P<0.05), while the expression in nuclear increased 
significantly (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The PI3K/AKT signal pathway might inhibit the nuclear translocation 
of B7-H4.

PMID: 25374071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2014 Sep 15;7(10):6768-75. eCollection 2014.

B7-H4 expression is correlated with tumor progression and clinical outcome in 
urothelial cell carcinoma.

Fan M(1), Zhuang Q(1), Chen Y(1), Ding T(1), Yao H(1), Chen L(2), He X(1), Xu 
X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University 
Changzhou 213000, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University Changzhou 213000, Jiangsu, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the mRNA and protein levels of B7-H4, a B7 family 
molecule, in human urothelial cell carcinoma (UCC), to analyze the relationship 
between B7-H4 protein expression level and pathological stage of UCC, and to 
examine the potential of B7-H4 as a prognostic factor in UCC.
METHODS: mRNA and protein levels of B7-H4 were measured in pairs of tumor 
tissues and matched adjacent nontumor tissue obtained from patients with UCC by 
quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and 
immunohistochemical staining, respectively. Association of the protein level of 
B7-H4 with pathological tumor stage and the overall survival of UCC patients 
were also analyzed.
RESULTS: B7-H4 mRNA and protein level were significantly higher in UCC tumor 
tissues compared with adjacent nontumor tissues as assessed by qRT-PCR and 
immunohistochemical staining, respectively. Higher B7-H4 protein levels were 
observed in patients with more advanced pathological stage of UCC and were also 
associated with decreased overall survival of patients with UCC.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings from this study indicate that B7-H4 has the potential 
to be an independent prognostic indicator for UCC.

PMCID: PMC4230072
PMID: 25400757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Cell Rep. 2014 Nov 6;9(3):1089-98. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2014.09.053. Epub
2014  Oct 30.

Structure and cancer immunotherapy of the B7 family member B7x.

Jeon H(1), Vigdorovich V(1), Garrett-Thomson SC(2), Janakiram M(3), Ramagopal 
UA(2), Abadi YM(1), Lee JS(1), Scandiuzzi L(1), Ohaegbulam KC(1), Chinai JM(1), 
Zhao R(1), Yao Y(4), Mao Y(4), Sparano JA(3), Almo SC(5), Zang X(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Physiology and Biophysics, Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
(3)Department of Oncology, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10467, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200040, China.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Physiology and Biophysics, Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. Electronic address: 
steve.almo@einstein.yu.edu.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA; Department of Oncology, Montefiore Medical 
Center, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY 10467, USA. Electronic 
address: xing-xing.zang@einstein.yu.edu.

B7x (B7-H4 or B7S1) is a member of the B7 family that can inhibit T cell 
function. B7x protein is absent in most normal human tissues and immune cells, 
but it is overexpressed in human cancers and often correlates with negative 
clinical outcome. The expression pattern and function of B7x suggest that it may 
be a potent immunosuppressive pathway in human cancers. Here, we determined the 
crystal structure of the human B7x immunoglobulin variable (IgV) domain at 1.59 
Å resolution and mapped the epitopes recognized by monoclonal antibodies. We 
developed an in vivo system to screen therapeutic monoclonal antibodies against 
B7x and found that the clone 1H3 significantly inhibited growth of 
B7x-expressing tumors in vivo via multiple mechanisms. Furthermore, the 
surviving mice given 1H3 treatment were resistant to tumor rechallenge. Our data 
suggest that targeting B7x on tumors is a promising cancer immunotherapy and 
humanized 1H3 may be efficacious for immunotherapy of human cancers.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2014.09.053
PMCID: PMC4250833
PMID: 25437562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Hum Immunol. 2014 Dec;75(12):1203-9. doi: 10.1016/j.humimm.2014.10.002. Epub
 2014 Oct 13.

B7-H4 overexpression impairs the immune response of T cells in human cervical 
carcinomas.

Wang X(1), Wang T(1), Xu M(1), Xiao L(2), Luo Y(2), Huang W(1), Zhang Y(1), Geng 
W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Molecular Medicine and Tumor Research Center of 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The First Affiliate Hospital of 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate B7-H4 expression and its correlation with the number 
of infiltrating T lymphocytes and cytokine production by those lymphocytes in 
human cervical cancer and to determine the effect of recombinant B7-H4 on the 
active peripheral blood T cells of the patients in vitro.
METHODS: B7-H4 expression was detected in 67 cases of cervical cancer using 
immunohistochemical staining. Tumor-infiltrating CD8(+)T, CD4(+)T, and FOXP3(+) 
(Forkhead Box P3) T lymphocytes and their levels of IFN-γ and TGF-β₁ production 
were determined by immunofluorescent double-staining. After the peripheral blood 
T lymphocytes of patients were co-cultured with B7-H4, proliferation, apoptosis, 
and cell subtypes were analyzed using flow cytometry. Cytokines in the 
supernatant were detected by ELISA.
RESULTS: B7-H4 was expressed in 46% (31/67) of the cases of cervical cancer. The 
number of infiltrating CD8(+)T lymphocytes and their IFN-γ production in 
positive B7-H4 expression cervical cancers was significantly lower than in 
negative B7-H4 cases (P<0.01, P<0.05), but there was no significant difference 
between cases positive and negative for B7-H4 with respect to infiltrating 
FOXP3(+)T and CD4(+)T cells or TGF-β1 production. After co-culture with B7-H4 
for 48 h, the patients' activated T lymphocytes were arrested at G1/G2 phase. 
The Ki67 positive rates of CD4(+)T and CD8(+)T cells were 2.13 ± 0.13% and 1.03 
± 1.33%, and they were lower than in the blank group. The proportion of CD4(+)T 
and CD8(+)T cells decreased, but CD4(+)T/CD8(+)T and the proportion of 
CD4(+)CD25(+)Foxp3(+)T cells increased. In addition, concentrations of IL-10 and 
TGF-β1 in the supernatant of co-cultured T cells increased significantly 
(P<0.05, P<0.05), but that of IFN-γ decreased. B7-H4 had no significant effect 
on apoptosis of the T cells.
CONCLUSION: B7-H4 is overexpressed in human cervical cancers, and it is 
associated with lower numbers of tumor-infiltrating CD8(+)T lymphocytes and 
therefore less IFN-γ production. In vitro, B7-H4 inhibits the proliferation of 
CD4(+)T and CD8(+)T but promotes the proliferation of Tregs and the secretion of 
IL-10 and TGF-β1. B7-H4 plays an important role in depressing the anti-tumor 
immunity of CD8(+)T cell in microenvironments of cervical cancer.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humimm.2014.10.002
PMID: 25446402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. World J Diabetes. 2014 Dec 15;5(6):739-46. doi: 10.4239/wjd.v5.i6.739.

B7-H4 as a protective shield for pancreatic islet beta cells.

Sun AC(1), Ou D(1), Luciani DS(1), Warnock GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Annika C Sun, Dawei Ou, Dan S Luciani, Garth L Warnock, Department of 
Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver BC V5Z 4E3, Canada.

Auto- and alloreactive T cells are major culprits that damage β-cells in type 1 
diabetes (T1D) and islet transplantation. Current immunosuppressive drugs can 
alleviate immune-mediated attacks on islets. T cell co-stimulation blockade has 
shown great promise in autoimmunity and transplantation as it solely targets 
activated T cells, and therefore avoids toxicity of current immunosuppressive 
drugs. An attractive approach is offered by the newly-identified negative T cell 
co-signaling molecule B7-H4 which is expressed in normal human islets, and its 
expression co-localizes with insulin. A concomitant decrease in B7-H4/insulin 
co-localization is observed in human type 1 diabetic islets. B7-H4 may play 
protective roles in the pancreatic islets, preserving their function and 
survival. In this review we outline the protective effect of B7-H4 in the 
contexts of T1D, islet cell transplantation, and potentially type 2 diabetes. 
Current evidence offers encouraging data regarding the role of B7-H4 in reversal 
of autoimmune diabetes and donor-specific islet allograft tolerance. 
Additionally, unique expression of B7-H4 may serve as a potential biomarker for 
the development of T1D. Future studies should continue to focus on the 
islet-specific effects of B7-H4 with emphasis on mechanistic pathways in order 
to promote B7-H4 as a potential therapy and cure for T1D.

DOI: 10.4239/wjd.v5.i6.739
PMCID: PMC4265860
PMID: 25512776


176. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Feb;3(2):184-95. doi:
10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0113.  Epub 2014 Dec 19.

B7-H4 expression by nonhematopoietic cells in the tumor microenvironment 
promotes antitumor immunity.

Rahbar R(1), Lin A(1), Ghazarian M(1), Yau HL(1), Paramathas S(1), Lang PA(2), 
Schildknecht A(3), Elford AR(3), Garcia-Batres C(3), Martin B(3), Berman HK(4), 
Leong WL(3), McCready DR(5), Reedijk M(3), Done SJ(6), Miller N(7), Youngson 
B(7), Suh WK(8), Mak TW(9), Ohashi PS(10).

Author information:
(1)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Department of Immunology, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine II, Heinrich Heine University Dösseldorf, 
Dösseldorf, Germany.
(3)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Laboratory Medicine Program, University 
Health Network (UHN), Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Department of Laboratory 
Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(6)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Laboratory Medicine Program, University 
Health Network (UHN), Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Department of Laboratory 
Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(7)Laboratory Medicine Program, University Health Network (UHN), Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Immune Regulation Laboratory, Institut de Recherches Cliniques de Montreal 
(IRCM), Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(9)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Department of Immunology, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Department of Medical Biophysics, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(10)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Department of Immunology, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Department of Medical Biophysics, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. pohashi@uhnres.utoronto.ca.

The B7 family plays a critical role in both positive and negative regulation of 
immune responses by engaging a variety of receptors on lymphocytes. Importantly, 
blocking coinhibitory molecules using antibodies specific for CTLA-4 and PD-1 
enhances tumor immunity in a subset of patients. Therefore, it is critical to 
understand the role of different B7 family members since they may be suitable 
therapeutic targets. B7-H4 is another member that inhibits T-cell function, and 
it is also upregulated on a variety of tumors and has been proposed to promote 
tumor growth. Here, we investigate the role of B7-H4 in tumor development and 
show that B7-H4 expression inhibits tumor growth in two mouse models. 
Furthermore, we show that B7-H4 expression is required for antitumor immune 
responses in a mouse model of mammary tumorigenesis. We found that the 
expression levels of B7-H4 correlate with MHC class I expression in both mouse 
and human samples. We show that IFNγ upregulates B7-H4 expression on mouse 
embryo fibroblasts and that the upregulation of B7-H4 on tumors is dependent on 
T cells. Notably, patients with breast cancer with increased B7-H4 expression 
show a prolonged time to recurrence. These studies demonstrate a positive role 
for B7-H4 in promoting antitumor immunity.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-14-0113
PMID: 25527357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Dec;22(6):1610-5. doi: 
10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2014.06.020.

[Inhibitory effect of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells on lymphoma cell 
proliferation].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang AP(1), Tang LT(2), Chen JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology & Rheumatology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou 350005, Fujian Province, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Third Hospital of Xingtai, Xingtai 054000, Hebei 
Province, China.

Growing evidences show that mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) home to tumorgenesis 
and inhibit tumor cells, however, their molecular mechanisms are unclear. The 
purpose of this study was to explore the effect of B7-H4 in the influence of the 
mouse MSC on the proliferation of lymphoma cell line EL-4. The expression of 
B7-H4 on the MSC cell line C3H10T1/2 (C3H10) was detected by using 
immunofluorescence. FAM-siRNA was synthesized and transfected into C3H10 cells 
by INTERFER in (TM) siRNA Transfection Reagent. The transfection efficiency was 
determined by fluorescent microscopy and flow cytometry. The mRNA expression of 
B7-H4 was detected by RT-PCR after transfection of siRNA-B7-H4 into C3H10 cell 
line. The EL-4 was co-cultured with C3H10 siRNA-NC or C3H10 siRNA-B7-H4 for 48 
hours, then was compared with EL-4 cultured alone, after 48 hours the cells were 
harvested under the confocal microscopy and measured by means of CCK-8 Kit. The 
results showed that the siRNA transfection efficiency in C3H10 cells reached to 
72.43%, B7-H4 expressed highly on C3H10, the B7-H4 mRNA expression was 
down-regulated by transfection with different concentrations of siRNA into C3H10 
cells. The proliferation of EL-4 was inhibited by C3H10 cells, and the effects 
were weakened and even disappeared after down-regulation of B7-H4. It is 
concluded that C3H10 can inhibit the proliferation of EL-4 through the 
expression of B7-H4, and this study provides new targets for the clinical 
treatment of lymphoma.

DOI: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2014.06.020
PMID: 25543483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Immune Netw. 2014 Dec;14(6):265-76. doi: 10.4110/in.2014.14.6.265. Epub 2014
Dec  22.

The CD28-B7 Family in Anti-Tumor Immunity: Emerging Concepts in Cancer 
Immunotherapy.

Leung J(1), Suh WK(2).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherches Cliniques de Montréal (IRCM), Montreal, QC H2W 1R7, 
Canada. ; Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC H3A 0G4, Canada.
(2)Institut de Recherches Cliniques de Montréal (IRCM), Montreal, QC H2W 1R7, 
Canada. ; Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC H3A 0G4, Canada. ; Department of Medicine; Department of 
Microbiology, Infectiology, and Immunology, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC 
H3T 1J4, Canada.

The interactions between B7 molecules and CD28-family receptors are crucial in 
the regulation of adaptive cellular immunity. In cancer, the aberrant expression 
of co-inhibitory B7 molecules has been attributed to reduced anti-tumor immunity 
and cancer immune evasion, prompting the development of cancer therapeutics that 
can restore T cell function. Murine tumor models have provided significant 
support for the targeting of multiple immune checkpoints involving CTLA-4, PD-1, 
ICOS, B7-H3 and B7-H4 during tumor growth, and clinical studies investigating 
the therapeutic effects of CTLA-4 and PD-1 blockade have shown exceptionally 
promising results in patients with advanced melanoma and other cancers. The 
expression pattern of co-inhibitory B7 ligands in the tumor microenvironment has 
also been largely correlated with poor patient prognosis, and recent evidence 
suggests that the presence of several B7 molecules may predict the 
responsiveness of immunotherapies that rely on pre-existing tumor-associated 
immune responses. While monotherapies blocking T cell co-inhibition have 
beneficial effects in reducing tumor burden, combinatorial immunotherapy 
targeting multiple immune checkpoints involved in various stages of the 
anti-tumor response has led to the most substantial impact on tumor reduction. 
In this review, we will examine the contributions of B7- and CD28-family members 
in the context of cancer development, and discuss the implications of current 
human findings in cancer immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.4110/in.2014.14.6.265
PMCID: PMC4275384
PMID: 25550693

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial conflict of 
interest.


179. Tumour Biol. 2015 Jun;36(6):4397-403. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-3079-x. Epub
2015  Feb 1.

Prognostic value of soluble H7-B4 in pleural effusion associated with lung 
cancer.

Xu CH(1), Cao L, Zhang XW, Yan J, Yu LK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nanjing Chest Hospital, 215 Guangzhou 
Road, Nanjing, 210029, China.

B7-H4, a member of the inhibitory B7 family, can restrain T cell proliferation, 
activation, and cytokine secretion and may be involved in immune evasion in 
cancer patients. This study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic 
value of pleural effusion levels of soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) in lung cancer 
patients with malignant pleural effusion (MPE). Pleural effusion samples were 
collected from 98 lung cancer patients with malignant effusion and from 60 
patients with nonmalignant pleural effusion. Pleural effusion concentrations of 
sB7-H4 were measured using sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Malignant 
effusion exhibited higher sB7-H4 levels than those in nonmalignant effusion 
(P < 0.01). Lung cancer patients with pleural effusion sB7-H4 levels below 35.8 
ng/ml had a longer overall survival than those with higher levels (P < 0.05). By 
multivariate analysis, pleural effusion sB7-H4 was an independent prognostic 
factor in patients with MPE. In conclusion, measurement of sB7-H4 might be a 
useful diagnostic and prognostic value for MPE patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-3079-x
PMID: 25636447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2015 Apr 3;459(2):277-283. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.02.098. Epub 2015 Feb 26.

Cancer cell-associated cytoplasmic B7-H4 is induced by hypoxia through 
hypoxia-inducible factor-1α and promotes cancer cell proliferation.

Jeon YK(1), Park SG(2), Choi IW(2), Lee SW(3), Lee SM(4), Choi I(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan 614-735, Republic of Korea; Advanced Research Center for 
Multiple Myeloma, Inje University College of Medicine, Busan 614-735, Republic 
of Korea.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan 614-735, Republic of Korea.
(3)Advanced Research Center for Multiple Myeloma, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan 614-735, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Busan Paik 
Hospital, Inje University, Busan 614-735, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan 614-735, Republic of Korea; Advanced Research Center for 
Multiple Myeloma, Inje University College of Medicine, Busan 614-735, Republic 
of Korea. Electronic address: miccih@inje.ac.kr.

Aberrant B7-H4 expression in cancer tissues serves as a novel prognostic 
biomarker for poor survival in patients with cancer. However, the factor(s) that 
induce cancer cell-associated B7-H4 remain to be fully elucidated. We herein 
demonstrate that hypoxia upregulates B7-H4 transcription in primary CD138(+) 
multiple myeloma cells and cancer cell lines. In support of this finding, 
analysis of the Multiple Myeloma Genomics Portal (MMGP) data set revealed a 
positive correlation between the mRNA expression levels of B7-H4 and the 
endogenous hypoxia marker carbonic anhydrogenase 9. Hypoxia-induced B7-H4 
expression was detected in the cytoplasm, but not in cancer cell membranes. 
Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrated binding of hypoxia-inducible 
factor-1α (HIF-1α) to proximal hypoxia-response element (HRE) sites within the 
B7-H4 promoter. Knockdown of HIF-1α and pharmacological inhibition of HIF-1α 
diminished B7-H4 expression. Furthermore, knockdown of cytoplasmic B7-H4 in 
MCF-7 decreased the S-phase cell population under hypoxia. Finally, MMGP 
analysis revealed a positive correlation between the transcript levels of B7-H4 
and proliferation-related genes including MKI67, CCNA1, and Myc in several 
patients with multiple myeloma. Our results provide insight into the mechanisms 
underlying B7-H4 upregulation and its role in cancer cell proliferation in a 
hypoxic tumor microenvironment.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2015.02.098
PMID: 25725157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Aging Cell. 2015 Jun;14(3):421-32. doi: 10.1111/acel.12320. Epub 2015 Feb
27.

Global analyses revealed age-related alterations in innate immune responses 
after stimulation of pathogen recognition receptors.

Metcalf TU(1), Cubas RA, Ghneim K, Cartwright MJ, Grevenynghe JV, Richner JM, 
Olagnier DP, Wilkinson PA, Cameron MJ, Park BS, Hiscott JB, Diamond MS, 
Wertheimer AM, Nikolich-Zugich J, Haddad EK.

Author information:
(1)Vaccine and Gene Therapy Institute of Florida, 9801 SW Discovery Way, Port 
St. Lucie, FL, 34987, USA.

Aging leads to dysregulation of multiple components of the immune system that 
results in increased susceptibility to infections and poor response to vaccines 
in the aging population. The dysfunctions of adaptive B and T cells are well 
documented, but the effect of aging on innate immunity remains incompletely 
understood. Using a heterogeneous population of peripheral blood mononuclear 
cells (PBMCs), we first undertook transcriptional profiling and found that PBMCs 
isolated from old individuals (≥ 65 years) exhibited a delayed and altered 
response to stimulation with TLR4, TLR7/8, and RIG-I agonists compared to cells 
obtained from adults (≤ 40 years). This delayed response to innate immune 
agonists resulted in the reduced production of pro-inflammatory and antiviral 
cytokines and chemokines including TNFα, IL-6, IL-1β, IFNα, IFNγ, CCL2, and 
CCL7. While the major monocyte and dendritic cell subsets did not change 
numerically with aging, activation of specific cell types was altered. PBMCs 
from old subjects also had a lower frequency of CD40+ monocytes, impaired 
up-regulation of PD-L1 on monocytes and T cells, and increased expression of 
PD-L2 and B7-H4 on B cells. The defective immune response to innate agonists 
adversely affected adaptive immunity as TLR-stimulated PBMCs (minus CD3 T cells) 
from old subjects elicited significantly lower levels of adult T-cell 
proliferation than those from adult subjects in an allogeneic mixed lymphocyte 
reaction (MLR). Collectively, these age-associated changes in cytokine, 
chemokine and interferon production, as well as co-stimulatory protein 
expression could contribute to the blunted memory B- and T-cell immune responses 
to vaccines and infections.

© 2015 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12320
PMCID: PMC4406671
PMID: 25728020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Mol Pharm. 2015 Jun 1;12(6):1717-29. doi: 10.1021/mp5007745. Epub 2015 Apr
23.

An anti-B7-H4 antibody-drug conjugate for the treatment of breast cancer.

Leong SR, Liang WC, Wu Y, Crocker L, Cheng E, Sampath D, Ohri R, Raab H, Hass 
PE, Pham T, Firestein R, Li D, Schutten M, Stagg NJ, Ogasawara A, Koppada N, 
Roth L, Williams SP, Lee BC, Chalouni C, Peng I, DeVoss J, Tremayne J, Polakis 
P, Polson AG.

B7-H4 has been implicated in cancers of the female reproductive system and 
investigated for its possible use as a biomarker for cancer, but there are no 
preclinical studies to demonstrate that B7-H4 is a molecular target for 
therapeutic intervention of cancer. We provide evidence that the prevalence and 
expression levels of B7-H4 are high in different subtypes of breast cancer and 
that only a few normal tissues express B7-H4 on the cell membrane. These 
profiles of low normal expression and upregulation in cancer provide an 
opportunity for the use of antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), cytotoxic drugs 
chemically linked to antibodies, for the treatment of B7-H4 positive cancers. We 
have developed an ADC specific to B7-H4 that uses a linker drug consisting of a 
potent antimitotic, monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE), linked to engineered 
cysteines (THIOMAB) via a protease labile linker. We will refer to ADCs that use 
the THIOMAB format as TDCs to help distinguish the format from standard 
MC-vc-MMAE ADCs that are conjugated to the interchain disulfide bonds. 
Anti-B7-H4 (h1D11)-MC-vc-PAB-MMAE (h1D11 TDC) produced durable tumor regression 
in cell line and patient-derived xenograft models of triple-negative breast 
cancer. It also binds rat B7-H4 with similar affinity to human and allowed us to 
test for target dependent toxicity in rats. We found that our anti-B7-H4 TDC has 
toxicity findings similar to untargeted TDC. Our results validate B7-H4 as an 
ADC target for breast cancer and support the possible use of this TDC in the 
treatment of B7-H4(+) breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1021/mp5007745
PMID: 25853436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Gene. 2015 Jul 25;566(2):217-22. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.04.044. Epub 2015
Apr  18.

SNP-SNP interactions of immunity related genes involved in the CD28/B7 pathway 
with susceptibility to invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast.

Zhifu Y(1), Mingli J(2), Shuang C(3), Fan W(1), Zhenkun F(3), Wangyang C(1), Lin 
Z(1), Guangxiao L(1), Yashuang Z(4), Dianjun L(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Public Health College, Harbin Medical University, 
157, Baojian Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, PR China.
(2)Health Management College, Harbin Medical University, 157, Baojian Street, 
Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, PR China.
(3)Department of Immunology, Harbin Medical University, 157, Baojian Street, 
Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, PR China.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Public Health College, Harbin Medical University, 
157, Baojian Street, Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, PR China. 
Electronic address: zhao_yashuang@263.net.
(5)Department of Immunology, Harbin Medical University, 157, Baojian Street, 
Nangang District, Harbin, Heilongjiang Province, PR China. Electronic address: 
dianjunli@163.com.

To explore the interactions among immunity related genes and the risk of breast 
cancer (BC), 376 invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) of the breast cases and 366 
healthy controls were selected into our study. Twenty single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) of five immunological genes in the CD28/B7 pathway were 
genotyped. Overall, five SNPs filtered by the Relief F algorithm were rs733618, 
rs11889031, rs4553808, rs4675374 and rs10754339. The best model of multifactor 
dimensionality reduction (MDR) contained rs733618 and rs11889031. The high risk 
genotype combination contributed to increasing risk of breast cancer (odds ratio 
(OR), 4.36; 95% confidence interval (CI); 3.15-6.02). The information gain (IG) 
value of these two SNPs was 8.07%, presented the strongest interaction effect. 
Five significant multiplicative interactions and seven significant combining 
effects were found among the filtered SNPs. Moreover, the filtered SNPs were 
still stable in the groups of ER(+), PR(+), CerbB2(-) and lymph node (LN) 
involvement positive with the best models including rs733618 and rs11889031. The 
most frequent haplotype was TACC which significantly increased breast cancer 
risk (OR, 1.80; 95% CI, 1.43-2.25). These results suggested that interactions 
among cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA4), inducible co-stimulator (ICOS) 
and B7H4 might play critical roles on the risk of breast cancer.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2015.04.044
PMID: 25900029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2015 Sep;74(3):209-15. doi: 10.1111/aji.12392. Epub
2015  Apr 24.

Changes in the Blood Serum Levels of the Costimulatory Soluble B7-H4 Molecule in 
Pregnant Women During the Peripartal Phase.

Mach P(1), Gellhaus A(1), Wicherek L(2), Schmidt B(3), Kimmig R(1), 
Kasimir-Bauer S(1), Köninger A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Gynecology and Oncology and Gynecological Nursing, Ludwik 
Rydygier Collegium Medicum, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Bydgoszcz, Poland.
(3)Institute for Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology (IMIBE), 
University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.

PROBLEM: B7-H4, a transmembrane protein that negatively regulates T lymphocytes, 
seems to play a role in the suppression of the im\mune response at the 
maternal-fetal interface. The aim of this study was to compare the blood serum 
concentration levels of soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) prepartal and postpartal in both 
women who experienced spontaneous onset of labor and those who underwent 
elective cesarian section.
METHOD OF STUDY: Blood was obtained from 30 prepartal and postpartal women who 
delivered at the University Hospital of Essen between 2011 and 2012. These 
patients were further divided into two subgroups depending on the advancement of 
labor. The sB7-H4 blood serum concentration levels of the women in the groups 
were then determined by ELISA (BIOZOL, Eching, Germany).
RESULTS: In women who underwent elective cesarian section, a significant 
increase in sB7-H4 blood serum concentration levels occurred postpartal, while 
in women who experienced spontaneous onset of labor, no differences between 
prepartal and postpartal concentration levels were observed. The sB7-H4 blood 
serum concentration levels on the day after delivery in the women who 
experienced spontaneous labor and those who underwent elective cesarian section 
were comparable; however, higher blood serum concentration levels of sB7-H4 were 
observed prepartal in women with spontaneous onset of labor compared to those 
found in the women about to undergo elective cesarian section.
CONCLUSION: These changes in sB7-H4 blood serum concentration levels suggest 
that this protein is involved in immunological changes associated with the 
spontaneous onset of labor and post-delivery homeostasis.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aji.12392
PMID: 25907449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Clin Exp Med. 2016 Aug;16(3):351-6. doi: 10.1007/s10238-015-0352-7. Epub
2015  Apr 30.

Increased B7H4 tissue expression correlates with high CA19.9 serum levels and a 
worse prognosis of pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

Tsiaousidou A(1)(2), Tsaroucha AK(3), Lambropoulou M(4), Pitiakoudis M(3), 
Polychronidis A(5), Chatzitheoklitos E(6), Romanidis K(3), Simopoulos C(3).

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Surgery and Laboratory of Experimental Surgery, Faculty of 
Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece. 
natasha_tsia@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Surgery, General Hospital 'Agios Dimitrios', Thessaloniki, 
Greece. natasha_tsia@yahoo.com.
(3)2nd Department of Surgery and Laboratory of Experimental Surgery, Faculty of 
Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(4)Laboratory of Histology, Faculty of Medicine, Democritus University of 
Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(5)1st Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Democritus University of 
Thrace, Alexandroupolis, Greece.
(6)Department of Surgery, General Hospital 'Agios Dimitrios', Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a leading cause of cancer death worldwide, especially 
in Western societies. Its aggressive nature and poor prognosis increase the need 
for identifying new and more accurate diagnostic and prognostic tools. We 
studied 41 patients who had undergone radical surgical resection for PC, 
investigated B7H4 protein expression in the PC tissue specimens of these 
patients by immunohistochemistry and analyzed several clinical and pathological 
features. The positive expression of the B7H4 antigen was associated with a 
negative impact of chemotherapy with gemcitabine on patient survival and also 
correlated with high CA19.9 serum levels and poorly differentiated tumors. 
Moreover, patients that overexpressed B7H4 antigen had worse prognosis compared 
to the ones that did not overexpress B7H4. B7H4 antigen is a negative prognostic 
marker for PC patients and also seems to express resistance of PC patients to 
chemotherapy with gemcitabine.

DOI: 10.1007/s10238-015-0352-7
PMID: 25924930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:156432. doi: 10.1155/2015/156432. Epub 2015 Apr
14.

B7-H4 expression is associated with tumor progression and prognosis in patients 
with osteosarcoma.

Dong Q(1), Ma X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Tianjin Hospital, Tianjin Medical University, 
Tianjin 300211, China.

Increasing evidences have demonstrated that B7-H4 is associated with tumor 
development and prognosis. However, the clinical significance of B7-H4 
expression in human osteosarcoma (OS) remains unclear. The aim of present study 
was to examine the B7-H4 expression and to explore its contribution in OS. B7-H4 
expression in OS tissues was examined by immunohistochemistry. Soluble B7-H4 
(sB7-H4) levels in blood were examined by ELISA. The association of B7-H4 
expression with clinicopathological factors or prognosis was statistically 
analyzed. Our findings demonstrated that B7-H4 expression in OS tissues was 
significantly higher than those in paired normal bone tissues (P < 0.001). 
sB7-H4 level in OS serum samples was significantly higher than that in healthy 
controls (P = 0.005). High B7-H4 expression in tissues and sB7-H4 level were 
both correlated with advanced tumor stage (P < 0.001, P = 0.017, resp.) and 
distant metastasis (P = 0.034, P = 0.021, resp.). Additionally, high B7-H4 
expression or serum sB7-H4 levels were significantly related to poor overall 
survival (P = 0.028, P = 0.005, resp.). B7-H4 in tissues and serum samples were 
an independent factor for affecting the survival time of OS patients (P = 0.004, 
P = 0.041, resp.). Collectively, our data suggest that the evaluation of B7-H4 
expression in tissues and blood is a useful tool for predicting the progression 
of osteosarcoma and prognosis.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/156432
PMCID: PMC4411454
PMID: 25954746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. J Surg Res. 2015 Aug;197(2):301-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2015.04.034. Epub 2015
Apr  16.

Diagnostic value of serum B7-H4 for hepatocellular carcinoma.

Zhang C(1), Li Y(2), Wang Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Medicine School of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi, P.R. China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an 
Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Xi'an, Shaanxi, P.R. China. Electronic 
address: yimli001@163.com.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Central Hospital of Xianyang, Xianyang, 
Shaanxi, P.R. China.

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have suggested the abnormal expression of soluble 
B7-H4 (sB7-H4) in circulation in cancer patients. The aim of present study was 
to examine the sB7-H4 expression in serum and to investigate the correlations 
between sB7-H4 levels and clinicopathologic parameters as well as the survival 
rate of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Circulating sB7-H4 levels in blood specimens from 93 
patients with HCC and 55 healthy volunteers were examined by enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay. The association of sB7-H4 levels with clinicopathologic 
factors, overall survival (OS), and time to recurrence were statistically 
analyzed.
RESULTS: sB7-H4 levels in HCC patients were significantly higher than that in 
healthy controls (49.12 ± 3.10 versus 31.66 ± 2.59 ng/mL, P < 0.001). High 
sB7-H4 levels were correlated with tumor size (P = 0.007), tumor invasion (P = 
0.037), tumor differentiation (P = 0.044) and tumor-node metastasis stage (P < 
0.001). In addition, high sB7-H4 levels were significantly related to poor OS 
and higher recurrence probability (P = 0.002, P = 0.014, respectively). High 
sB7-H4 levels were independent prognostic factors for both OS (hazard ratio = 
2.497; 95% confidence interval, 1.133-3.789; P = 0.009) and time to recurrence 
(hazard ratio = 2.33; 95% confidence interval, 1.247-4.179; P = 0.008).
CONCLUSIONS: Detection of sB7-H4 in serum might serve as a clinical predictor in 
the diagnosis or prediction of clinical outcomes for the patients with HCC.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2015.04.034
PMID: 25963168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Methods Mol Biol. 2015;1319:37-49. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4939-2748-7_2.

Isolation and Validation of Anti-B7-H4 scFvs from an Ovarian Cancer scFv 
Yeast-Display Library.

Dangaj D(1), Scholler N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Ludwig Cancer Research Center, University of 
Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.

B7-H4 (VTCN1, B7x, B7s) is an inhibitory modulator of T-cell response implicated 
in antigen tolerization. As such, B7-H4 is an immune checkpoint of potential 
therapeutic interest. To generate anti-B7-H4 targeting reagents, we isolated 
antibodies by differential cell screening of a yeast-display library of 
recombinant antibodies (scFvs) derived from ovarian cancer patients and we 
screened for functional scFvs capable to interfere with B7-H4-mediated 
inhibition of antitumor responses. We found one antibody binding to B7-H4 that 
could restore antitumor T cell responses. This chapter gives an overview of the 
methods we developed to isolate a functional anti-B7-H4 antibody fragment.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4939-2748-7_2
PMID: 26060068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Biomed Res Int. 2015;2015:326981. doi: 10.1155/2015/326981. Epub 2015 May
21.

Role of B7-H4 siRNA in Proliferation, Migration, and Invasion of LOVO Colorectal 
Carcinoma Cell Line.

Peng HX(1), Wu WQ(1), Yang DM(1), Jing R(1), Li J(1), Zhou FL(1), Jin YF(1), 
Wang SY(1), Chu YM(1).

Author information:
(1)Digestive Endoscopy Center, Shanghai Tongren Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 1111 Xianxia Road, Shanghai 200336, China.

OBJECTIVES: Colorectal cancer is one of the most common malignancies. Recent 
studies investigated that B7-H4 is highly expressed in various cancers. We aimed 
at exploring the effect of B7-H4 siRNA on proliferation, invasion, and migration 
of LOVO cells which expressed B7-H4 notably.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Colon adenocarcinoma dataset was downloaded from The Cancer 
Genome Atlas. 35 colorectal cancer patients admitted to Shanghai Tongren 
Hospital were enrolled in this study. Cell proliferation and cell cycle 
distribution were identified by CCK8 and flow cytometry, respectively. Transwell 
assay was performed to detect the invasion and migration of LOVO cells. 
CXCL12/CXCR4 expression and JAK2/STAT3 phosphorylation were determined by 
real-time PCR and western blot.
RESULTS: B7-H4 expressed is elevated in colorectal cancer tissues than in the 
adjacent normal tissues. B7-H4 siRNA effectively inhibited the proliferation at 
24 h and 48 h, arrested cell cycle at G0/G1, and suppressed cell invasion and 
migration. Gene set enrichment analysis showed that CXCL12/CXCR4 and JAK/STAT 
were correlative with the B7-H4 expression. Additionally, CXCL12/CXCR4 
expression and JAK2/STAT3 phosphorylation were reduced.
CONCLUSIONS: B7-H4 siRNA can effectively inhibit proliferation, invasion, and 
migration of LOVO cells by targeting CXCL12/CXCR4 and JAK2/STAT3 signaling, 
which can serve as a new target for colorectal carcinoma treatment.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/326981
PMCID: PMC4454715
PMID: 26078947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Sci Rep. 2015 Jun 23;5:11560. doi: 10.1038/srep11560.

Amniotic fluid stem cells provide considerable advantages in epidermal 
regeneration: B7H4 creates a moderate inflammation microenvironment to promote 
wound repair.

Sun Q(1), Li F(2), Li H(3), Chen RH(4), Gu YZ(4), Chen Y(3), Liang HS(1), You 
XR(1), Ding SS(4), Gao L(4), Wang YL(4), Qin MD(1), Zhang XG(5).

Author information:
(1)1] The Stem Cell and Biomedical Material Key Laboratory of Jiangsu Province 
(the State Key Laboratory Incubation Base), Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 
Province, P.R. China [2] Department of Immunology, School of Biology and Basic 
Medical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, P.R. China.
(2)1] The Stem Cell and Biomedical Material Key Laboratory of Jiangsu Province 
(the State Key Laboratory Incubation Base), Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 
Province, P.R. China [2] Department of Human Anatomy, Histology and Embryology, 
School of Biology and Basic Medical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu Province, P.R. China.
(3)Center for Reproduction and Genetics, Suzhou Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing 
Medical University, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province,P.R. China.
(4)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, P.R. China.
(5)1] The Stem Cell and Biomedical Material Key Laboratory of Jiangsu Province 
(the State Key Laboratory Incubation Base), Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 
Province, P.R. China [2] Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, P.R. China.

The current treatments for severe skin injury all involve skin grafting. 
However, there is a worldwide shortage of donor skin tissue. In this study, we 
examined the advantages of using human amniotic fluid stem (hAFS) cells in skin 
wound healing. In vitro, hAFS cells differentiate into keratinocytes (termed 
hAFS-K). Like keratinocytes, hAFS-K cells express the markers K5, K14, K10 and 
involucrin; display typical cellular structure, including a tonofibril-rich 
cytoplasm; and construct a completely pluristratified epithelium in 3D culture. 
In vivo, in a mouse excisional wound model, GFP-positive hAFS cells participate 
in wound repair. Co-localization of GFP/K14 and GFP/K10 in the repaired 
epidermis demonstrated that hAFS cells can differentiate into keratinocytes. 
Real-time PCR results confirmed that hAFS cells can initiate and promote 
early-stage repair of skin damage. During wound repair, hAFS cells did not 
directly secrete repair-related factors, such as bFGF, VEGF, CXCL12, TGF-β1 and 
KGF, and provided a moderate inflammation reaction with lower expression of 
IL-1β, IL-6, TNF-α, Cox2 and Mac3. In hAFS cells, the negative co-stimulatory 
molecule B7H4 regulates low immunogenicity, which can provide a modest 
inflammatory reaction microenvironment for wound repair. Furthermore, with their 
uniquely high proliferation rate, hAFS cells offer a promising alternative for 
epidermal regeneration.

DOI: 10.1038/srep11560
PMCID: PMC4477371
PMID: 26101181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Pregnancy Hypertens. 2012 Jul;2(3):278-9. doi: 10.1016/j.preghy.2012.04.180.
 Epub 2012 Jun 13.

PP069. The expressions of B7-H1 and B7-H4 co-stimulatory molecules on myeloid 
and lymphoid dendritic cells in pre-eclampsia and normal pregnancy. The 
expressions of B7-H1 and B7-H4 co-stimulatory moleculeson myeloid and lymphoid 
dendritic cells in pre-eclampsia and normal pregnancy.

Darmochwal-Kolarz DA(1), Kludka-Sternik M(2), Chmielewski T(2), Kolarz B(2), 
Rolinski J(2), Oleszczuk J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Perinatology, Lublin, Poland.
(2)Department of Clinical Immunology, Medical University of Lublin, Lublin, 
Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Pre-eclampsia (PE) is a common obstetric syndrome affecting about 
5-10% of pregnant women. The syndrome is a leading cause of maternal and fetal 
morbidity and mortality, even in developed world. The etiology and pathogenesis 
of this syndrome are not fully understood. There are many studies describing 
alterations in the innate and adaptive immune system which may have an influence 
on the onset of this disorder. It was suggested that activation of cell-mediated 
immunity may play the key role in the etiology of pre-eclampsia.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of our study was to estimate the expressions of B7-H1 
and B7-H4 costimulatory molecules on myeloid and lymphoid DCs (CD1c(+), 
BDCA-2(+)) in the peripheral blood of patients with pre-eclampsia and normal 
pregnant women in the third trimesters of physiological pregnancy.
METHODS: Thirty three patients with pre-eclampsia and 26 normal pregnant women 
were included in the study. Dendritic cells were isolated from peripheral blood, 
stained with monoclonal antibodies against blood dendritic cell antigens and 
B7-H1 and B7-H4 molecules and estimated using flow cytometry.
RESULTS: The expressions of B7-H1 molecule on CD1c(+) myeloid DCs and B7-H4 
molecule on BDCA-2(+) lymphoid DCs did not differ in pre-eclampsia and healthy 
third trimester pregnant women. The expressions of B7-H4 molecule on CD1c(+) 
myeloid DCs and B7-H1 molecule on BDCA-2(+) lymphoid DCs were significantly 
higher in peripheral blood of patients with pre-eclampsia in comparison with the 
control group.
CONCLUSION: It seems possible that higher expressions of B7-H4 molecule on 
CD1c(+) myeloid DCs and B7-H1 molecule on lymphoid BDCA-2(+) DCs in 
pre-eclampsia may be the tolerogenic mechanism secondary to the pro-inflammatory 
response which is observed in this syndrome.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preghy.2012.04.180
PMID: 26105391


192. Cancer Immunol Res. 2015 Aug;3(8):849-54. doi:
10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-15-0100.  Epub 2015 Jun 29.

Ablation of B7-H3 but Not B7-H4 Results in Highly Increased Tumor Burden in a 
Murine Model of Spontaneous Prostate Cancer.

Kreymborg K(1), Haak S(2), Murali R(3), Wei J(4), Waitz R(1), Gasteiger G(1), 
Savage PA(5), van den Brink MR(6), Allison JP(7).

Author information:
(1)Program in Immunology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and Ludwig Center for 
Cancer Immunotherapy, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York.
(2)Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York. Centre of Allergy and 
Environment (ZAUM), Technical University and Helmholtz Centre Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York. Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, New York.
(4)Department of Immunology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois.
(6)Department of Immunology and Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York.
(7)Program in Immunology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and Ludwig Center for 
Cancer Immunotherapy, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York. Department of Immunology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas. JAllison@mdanderson.org.

The costimulatory molecules B7-H3 and B7-H4 are overexpressed in a variety of 
human tumors and have been hypothesized as possible biomarkers and 
immunotherapeutic targets. Despite this potential, the predominating uncertainty 
about their functional implication in tumor-host interaction hampers their 
evaluation as a target for cancer therapy. By means of a highly physiologic, 
spontaneous tumor model in mice, we establish a causal link between B7-H3 and 
host tumor control and found B7-H4 to be redundant.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-15-0100
PMCID: PMC5939565
PMID: 26122284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Biomarkers. 2015;20(4):271-4. doi: 10.3109/1354750X.2015.1068858.

Evaluation of serum and pleural levels of soluble B7-H4 in lung cancer patients 
with pleural effusion.

Xu C(1), Qian L, Yu L, Zhang X, Wang Q.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Respiratory Medicine , Nanjing Chest Hospital , Nanjing , 
Jiangsu , P.R. China .

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the diagnostic value of sB7-H4 and CEA in both serum and 
pleural effusion of lung cancer patients.
METHODS: Levels of sB7-H4 and CEA in 90 patients with malignant pleural effusion 
due to lung cancer and 58 patients with benign pleural effusion were measured by 
ELISA.
RESULTS: The sB7-H4 and CEA levels in pleural effusion, serum and their ratio 
(F/S) were higher in lung cancer group than that in benign group (p < 0.01). The 
diagnostic efficiency of sB7-H4 combined CEA was superior to either sB7-H4 or 
CEA.
CONCLUSIONS: Measurement of sB7-H4 and CEA might be useful diagnostic value for 
malignant effusion.

DOI: 10.3109/1354750X.2015.1068858
PMID: 26301886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Front Immunol. 2015 Aug 18;6:421. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2015.00421. eCollection
 2015.

Novel Immune Check-Point Regulators in Tolerance Maintenance.

Guo Y(1), Wang AY(1).

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories , Palo Alto, CA , USA.

Erratum in
    Front Immunol. 2016;7:38.

The great success of anti-cytotoxic lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA4) and 
anti-programed cell death protein 1 (PD1) in cancer treatment has encouraged 
more effort in harnessing the immune response through immunomodulatory molecules 
in various diseases. The immunoglobulin (Ig) super family comprises the majority 
of immunomodulatory molecules. Discovery of novel Ig super family members has 
brought novel insights into the function of different immune cells in tolerance 
maintenance. In this review, we discuss the function of newly identified B7 
family molecules, B7-H4 and V-domain Ig Suppressor of T cell Activation (VISTA), 
and the butyrophilin/butyrophilin-like family members. We discuss the current 
stages of immunomodulatory molecules in clinical trials of organ 
transplantation. The potential of engaging the novel Ig superfamily members in 
tolerance maintenance is also discussed. We conclude with the challenges 
remaining to manipulate these molecules in the immune response.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2015.00421
PMCID: PMC4539525
PMID: 26347744


195. Tumour Biol. 2016 Mar;37(3):2961-71. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-4132-5. Epub
2015  Sep 28.

Roles of coinhibitory molecules B7-H3 and B7-H4 in esophageal squamous cell 
carcinoma.

Wang L(1), Cao NN(2), Wang S(2), Man HW(1), Li PF(1), Shan BE(3).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Institute, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, People's Republic of China.
(2)Blood Transfusion Department, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, People's Republic of China.
(3)Cancer Research Institute, The Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei, People's Republic of China. baoenshan@hbydsy.com.

The coinhibitory molecules, B7-H3 and B7-H4, have shown negative regulation in T 
cell activation and tumor-associated macrophage (TAM) polarization in 
tumor-specific immunity. Here, we investigated the expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 
in human and murine esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) tissues to define 
their clinical significance and mechanism in a tumor microenvironment. In the 
present study, B7-H3 and B7-H4 were expressed in 90.6 and 92.7 % samples, 
respectively. High B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression was associated with advanced TNM 
stage and lymph node metastasis (p < 0.05, respectively). Patients with both 
B7-H3 and B7-H4 high-expressed tumors had the poorest prognosis (26.7 months), 
whereas those with both low-expressed tumors had the best survival 
(56.7 months). B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression were inclined to be positively related 
to the infiltration intensity of Treg cells and TAMs (p < 0.05, respectively), 
and B7-H3 expression is negatively associated with the intensity of CD8(+) T 
cells (p < 0.05). In 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide (4-NQO)-induced murine models, 
high B7-H3 expression could only be detected at carcinoma stage, but abnormal 
B7-H4 expression appeared a little earlier at dysplasia stage. In vitro studies 
revealed that knockdown of B7-H3 on tumor cells suppressed ESCC cell migration 
and invasion, while knockdown of B7-H4 could inhibit ESCC cell growth. Overall, 
B7-H3 and B7-H4 are involved in ESCC progression and development and their 
coexpression could be valuable prognostic indicators. Interference of these 
negative regulatory molecules might be a new strategy for treating ESCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-4132-5
PMID: 26411671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Genet Mol Res. 2015 Oct 21;14(4):13041-8. doi: 10.4238/2015.October.21.25.

Circulating B7-H4 in serum predicts prognosis in patients with hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Zhang SA(1), Wu ZX(1), Zhang X(1), Zeng ZY(1), Li DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Medicine, Fuzhou PLA General Hospital, Fuzhou 
Fujian, China.

B7-H4 is member of the B7 family that negatively regulates the immune response, 
which are important for fine-tuning of the tumor microenvironment. Dysregulation 
of B7-H4 expression has been associated with tumor progression. However, 
expression level of B7-H4 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tissues is still a 
controversial topic. In addition, whether serum B7-H4 expression of HCC patients 
has any clinical value is unknown. We compared serum levels of B7-H4 in patients 
with HCC and healthy controls by using the ELISA method. Association between 
serum B7-H4 expression level and clinical parameters of HCC was further 
investigated. Log-rank test and Kaplan-Meier method were employed to evaluate 
the overall survival rate of HCC patients. Univariate and multivariate analysis 
of prognostic factors were performed with the Cox regression model. Our results 
showed that HCC patients had significantly higher serum B7-H4 level as compared 
with healthy controls (P < 0.001). In addition, serum B7-H4 expression was 
correlated with HCC clinical parameters including serum AFP expression and TNM 
stage. HCC patients in the higher serum B7-H4 expression group had a poorer 
5-year overall survival rate (P = 0.028). Moreover, serum B7-H4 expression was 
shown to be an independent prognostic factor for HCC (P = 0.034). The findings 
from this study suggest that serum B7-H4 is an independent prognostic indicator 
for HCC and may be a promising biomarker for early diagnosis as well as disease 
prognosis of HCC.

DOI: 10.4238/2015.October.21.25
PMID: 26505457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Exp Ther Med. 2015 Nov;10(5):1947-1952. doi: 10.3892/etm.2015.2714. Epub
2015  Aug 28.

Expression of immune checkpoint molecules in endometrial carcinoma.

Liu J(1), Liu Y(1), Wang W(1), Wang C(1), Che Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, Henan 450014, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Women & Infants Hospital of 
Zhengzhou, Zhengzhou, Henan 450000, P.R. China.

The main obstacle in the development of an effective tumor vaccine is the 
inherent ability of tumors to evade immune responses. Tumors often use common 
immune mechanisms and regulators to evade the immune system. The present study 
aimed to analyze the expression levels of indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), 
programmed death-ligand (PD-L) 1, PD-L2, B7-H4, galectin-1 and galectin-3 in 
tissue samples from patients with endometrial carcinoma, in order to detect the 
immunosuppressive environment of endometrial carcinomas. The levels of IDO, 
PD-L1, PD-L2 and B7-H4 were analyzed by immunohistochemical methods, and the 
levels of galectin-1 and galectin-3 in tumor lysates were determined using 
ELISA. PD-L2 was expressed at low levels in the majority of tumor samples. IDO 
expression was detected in 38, 63 and 43% of primary endometrial carcinoma, 
recurrent endometrial carcinoma, and metastatic endometrial carcinoma specimens, 
respectively. Positive expression rates for PD-L1 were 83% in primary 
endometrial carcinoma, 68% in recurrent endometrial carcinoma, and 100% in 
metastatic endometrial carcinoma, whereas B7-H4 expression was detected in 100% 
of both primary endometrial carcinoma and recurrent endometrial carcinoma 
samples, and in 96% of metastatic endometrial carcinoma specimens. The 
expression levels of galectin-1 and galectin-3 were not significantly different 
between the normal and tumor specimens. The results of the present study suggest 
that the interaction between PD-1/PD-L1 and B7-H4 may be a potential target for 
immune intervention in the treatment of endometrial carcinoma. Furthermore, the 
results may provide the basis for immunosuppressant therapy in the treatment of 
patients with uterine cancer.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2015.2714
PMCID: PMC4665362
PMID: 26640578


198. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Tumour Biol. 2016 Jun;37(6):7583-7. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-4652-z. Epub 2015 
Dec 18.

Prognostic investigations of B7-H1 and B7-H4 expression levels as independent 
predictor markers of renal cell carcinoma.

Safaei HR(1), Rostamzadeh A(2), Rahmani O(3), Mohammadi M(4), Ghaderi O(5), 
Yahaghi H(6), Ahmadi K(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, AJA University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Anatomical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Shahrekord University 
of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(3)Department of Pathology, Be'sat Hospital, AJA University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Lorestan 
University of Medical Sciences, Khorramabad, Iran.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Emergency Medicine, Alborz University of Medical Sciences, 
Karaj, Iran. ahmadik@mums.ac.ir.

Retraction in
    Tumour Biol. 2016 Nov 9;:

In order to evaluate the correlation of B7-H4 and B7-H1 with renal cell 
carcinoma (RCC), we analyzed B7-H1 and B7-H4 expressions and their clinical 
significance by immunohistochemical method. Our result indicated that 
B7-H4-positive staining was detected in 58.13 % of RCC tissues (25 tissues 
tumors), and there were 18 tissues of patients without detectable B7-H4. 
Furthermore, 21 cases (48.83 %) were B7-H1-positive. Positive tumor expressions 
of B7-H4 and B7-H1 were markedly related to advanced TNM stage (P = 0.001; 
P = 0.014), high grade (P = 0.001; P = 002), and larger tumor size (P = 0.002; 
P = 024) in RCC tissues than patients with B7-H4-negative and B7-H1-negative in 
RCC tissues. The patients with B7-H1 and B7-H4-positive expressions were found 
to be markedly correlated with the overall survival of the patients (P < 0.05) 
and tended to have an increased risk of death when compared with negative 
expression groups. Univariate analysis showed that B7-H4 and B7-H1 expressions, 
TNM stage, high grade, and tumor size were significantly related to the 
prognosis of RCC. Furthermore, multivariate analysis showed that B7-H4 and B7-H1 
expressions decreased overall survival. The adjusted HR for B7-H1 was 2.83 (95 % 
CI 1.210-2.971; P = 0.031) and also was 2.918 (95 % CI 1.243-3.102; P = 0.006) 
for B7-H4 that showed these markers were independent prognostic factors in RCC 
patients. The expressions of B7-H1 and B7-H4 in RCC patients indicate that these 
markers may be as a predictor of tumor development and death risk. Further 
investigations can be helpful to confirm B7-H1 and B7-H4 roles as an independent 
predictor of clinical RCC outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-4652-z
PMID: 26687644


199. J Immunol. 2016 Feb 15;196(4):1495-506. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1403251. Epub
2016  Jan 15.

Loss of Peripheral Protection in Pancreatic Islets by Proteolysis-Driven 
Impairment of VTCN1 (B7-H4) Presentation Is Associated with the Development of 
Autoimmune Diabetes.

Radichev IA(1), Maneva-Radicheva LV(1), Amatya C(1), Salehi M(1), Parker C(1), 
Ellefson J(1), Burn P(1), Savinov AY(2).

Author information:
(1)The Sanford Project, Children's Health Research Center, Sanford Research, 
Sioux Falls, SD 57104; and.
(2)The Sanford Project, Children's Health Research Center, Sanford Research, 
Sioux Falls, SD 57104; and Department of Pediatrics, University of South Dakota 
School of Medicine, Sioux Falls, SD 57105 Alexei.Savinov@sanfordhealth.org.

Ag-specific activation of T cells is an essential process in the control of 
effector immune responses. Defects in T cell activation, particularly in the 
costimulation step, have been associated with many autoimmune conditions, 
including type 1 diabetes (T1D). Recently, we demonstrated that the phenotype of 
impaired negative costimulation, due to reduced levels of V-set 
domain-containing T cell activation inhibitor 1 (VTCN1) protein on APCs, is 
shared between diabetes-susceptible NOD mice and human T1D patients. In this 
study, we show that a similar process takes place in the target organ, as both α 
and β cells within pancreatic islets gradually lose their VTCN1 protein during 
autoimmune diabetes development despite upregulation of the VTCN1 gene. 
Diminishment of functional islet cells' VTCN1 is caused by the active 
proteolysis by metalloproteinase N-arginine dibasic convertase 1 (NRD1) and 
leads to the significant induction of proliferation and cytokine production by 
diabetogenic T cells. Inhibition of NRD1 activity, alternatively, stabilizes 
VTCN1 and dulls the anti-islet T cell responses. Therefore, we suggest a general 
endogenous mechanism of defective VTCN1 negative costimulation, which affects 
both lymphoid and peripheral target tissues during T1D progression and results 
in aggressive anti-islet T cell responses. This mechanism is tied to 
upregulation of NRD1 expression and likely acts in two synergistic proteolytic 
modes: cell-intrinsic intracellular and cell-extrinsic systemic. Our results 
highlight an importance of VTCN1 stabilization on cell surfaces for the 
restoration of altered balance of immune control during T1D.

Copyright © 2016 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1403251
PMCID: PMC4744569
PMID: 26773144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Mol Med Rep. 2016 Mar;13(3):2032-8. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2016.4757. Epub 2016
Jan  12.

Downregulation of B7-H4 in the MHCC97-H hepatocellular carcinoma cell line by 
arsenic trioxide.

Cui L(1), Gao B(2), Cao Z(2), Chen X(2), Zhang S(2), Zhang W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Interventional Radiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Harbin Medical University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150086, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Radiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150086, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Parasitology, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 
150086, P.R. China.

Arsenic trioxide (As2O3; ATO), a compound which is characterized by its ability 
to function as a potent anticancer agent, has been investigated in a variety of 
carcinomas. B7‑H4, a transmembrane protein, may inhibit the function of the T 
cell effector, and therefore, may be useful in investigating different types of 
tumor therapies. However, few studies have been published previously associated 
with the roles of ATO and B7‑H4 in human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The aim 
of the present study was to investigate the anti‑invasive role of ATO in HCC, to 
determine the effect of ATO treatment on the expression of B7‑H4 and to further 
assess the possible underlying mechanisms. Following treatment of the cells with 
2, 4 and 8 µM ATO for 48 h, cell counting kit‑8 (CCK‑8), Transwell and western 
blot assays were used to determine the extent of human MHCC97‑H HCC cell 
proliferation, apoptosis, invasion and B7‑H4 expression, respectively. The 
results revealed that 1 µM ATO markedly decreased cellular proliferation, and 
ATO administered at concentrations of 0.1, 0.2 and 0.5 µM markedly inhibited the 
migration and invasion of the human MHCC97‑H HCC cell line. The expression of 
B7‑H4 in the treatment groups was markedly reduced. Signal transduction mediated 
via the Janus kinase 2/signal transducers and activators of transcription 3 
pathway was inhibited upon treatment with 0.1, 0.2 and 0.5 µM ATO. Additionally, 
the protein expression levels of matrix metalloproteinase 2 and vascular 
endothelial growth factor were markedly reduced in HCC cells upon treatment with 
ATO. In conclusion, ATO may reduce the protein expression levels of B7‑H4 in 
MHCC97‑H HCC cells, and further affected HCC tumorigenesis and progression. ATO 
may be a putative agent for the development of therapeutic strategies against 
human liver cancer.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2016.4757
PMCID: PMC4768969
PMID: 26781180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Immunology. 2016 May;148(1):22-33. doi: 10.1111/imm.12584. Epub 2016 Feb 8.

Tolerogenic effect of mouse fibroblasts on dendritic cells.

Khosravi-Maharlooei M(1), Pakyari M(1), Jalili RB(1), Salimi-Elizei S(1), Lai 
JC(2), Poormasjedi-Meibod M(1), Kilani RT(1), Dutz J(2), Ghahary A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.
(2)Department of Dermatology and Skin Science, Faculty of Medicine, Child and 
Family Research Institute, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.

There is controversy about the immunomodulatory effect of fibroblasts on 
dendritic cells (DCs). To clarify this issue, in this study, we have evaluated 
different features of fibroblast-primed DCs including their ability to express 
co-inhibitory and co-stimulatory molecules, pro-inflammatory and 
anti-inflammatory cytokines and their ability to induce T-cell proliferation. We 
also examined migratory capacity of DCs to lymphatic tissues and present 
fibroblast-derived antigens after encountering fibroblasts. The results of our 
in vitro study showed that both co-inhibitory (programmed death ligand 1 and 
ligand 2 and B7H4) and co-stimulatory (CD86) molecules were up-regulated when 
DCs were co-cultured with fibroblasts. In an animal model, we showed that intra- 
peritoneal injection (IP) of both syngeneic and allogeneic fibroblasts 
significantly increased both total DC count and expression level of 
co-inhibitory and co-stimulatory molecules on DCs. Priming of DCs with syngeneic 
and allogeneic fibroblasts reduced the proliferation of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T 
cells. Even activation of fibroblast- primed DCs failed to restore their ability 
to induce T-cell proliferation. Likewise, priming of DCs with fibroblasts 
blocked the ability of ovalbumin-pulsed DCs to induce proliferation of 
ovalbumin-specific CD4(+) T cells. Compared with non-activated DCs, 
fibroblast-primed DCs had significantly higher expression levels of 
interleukin-10 and indoleamine 2, 3 dioxygenase. Fibroblast-primed DCs had a 
significantly reduced interleukin-12 expression level compared with that of 
activated DCs. After priming with fibroblasts, DCs were able to migrate to 
lymphatic tissues and present fibroblast-derived antigens (ovalbumin). In 
conclusion, after priming with fibroblasts, DCs gain tolerogenic features. This 
finding suggests the potential role of fibroblasts in the maintenance of immune 
tolerance.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imm.12584
PMCID: PMC4819141
PMID: 26789277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Oncol Rep. 2016 Apr;35(4):2183-90. doi: 10.3892/or.2016.4607. Epub 2016 Feb
2.

B7-H3, B7-H4, Foxp3 and IL-2 expression in cervical cancer: Associations with 
patient outcome and clinical significance.

Huang C(1), Zhou L(1), Chang X(1), Pang X(1), Zhang H(1), Zhang S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110004, P.R. China.

The aim of this study was to determine the expression of B7-H3, B7-H4, Foxp3 and 
IL-2 in cervical cancer tissues, and evaluate the corresponding clinical 
significance. The expression of B7-H3, B7-H4, Foxp3 and IL-2 in 108 cervical 
cancer specimens was detected using immunohistochemistry, and their relationship 
with clinicopathologic parameters was determined. B7-H3, B7-H4 and Foxp3 had 
high levels of expression in cervical cancer cells (72.22, 80.56, and 91.56%, 
respectively). B7-H3 levels were only significantly associated with tumor size 
(P=0.013), while B7-H4, Foxp3 and IL-2 levels were significantly associated with 
International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage (P=0.023, 
0.014 and 0.036, respectively) and tumor size (P=0.045, 0.010 and 0.021, 
respectively). Their expression levels were not correlated with age, histologic 
type, differentiation and lymph node metastasis (all P>0.05). Cox regression 
multivariate analysis confirmed that B7-H3 or B7-H4 overexpression was an 
independent prognostic factor. In addition, there were significant positive 
relationships between the expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 with Foxp3 (P<0.001). In 
contrast, the expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 was negatively correlated with IL-2 
(P<0.05). B7-H3, B7-H4 and Foxp3 may be useful biomarkers in patients with 
cervical cancer for predicting treatment.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2016.4607
PMID: 26848032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Postepy Hig Med Dosw (Online). 2016 Jan 26;70:25-42. doi: 
10.5604/17322693.1192926.

[Immune checkpoint‑targeted cancer immunotherapies].

[Article in Polish]

Swatler J(1), Kozłowska E(1).

Author information:
(1)Zakład Immunologii, Instytut Zoologii, Wydział Biologii Uniwersytetu 
Warszawskiego.

Tumor cells may express on their surface various characteristic antigens that 
can induce antitumor immunity. However, cancer in human body may induce an 
immunosuppressive microenvironment that limits immune response to its antigens. 
For many years scientists have tried to develop an immunotherapy which would 
induce a potent antitumor immune response and lead to an elimination of the 
disease. One of the most promising immunotherapies is blockade of immune 
checkpoints, i.e. a group of costimulatory molecules negatively regulating the 
immune system. Their blockade would overcome immune tolerance in the tumor 
microenvironment and amplify antitumor immunity. What's more, immune checkpoint 
blockade may turn out even more profitable, as some of immune checkpoints and 
their ligands are expressed on tumor surface and on tumor infiltrating 
lymphocytes, contributing to the immunosuppressive cancer microenvironment. 
Phase III clinical trials have confirmed efficacy of an anti‑CTLA‑4 antibody 
ipilimumab, thereby leading to its acceptance for the treatment of advanced 
melanoma. Thanks to promising results of the phase I clinical trials, a 
breakthrough therapy designation and an early approval for the treatment have 
been granted to anti‑PD‑1 antibodies ‑ nivolumab (for the treatment of advanced 
melanoma and advanced non‑small cell lung cancer) and pembrolizumab (for the 
treatment of advanced melanoma) and, in the treatment of advanced bladder 
cancer, an anti‑PD‑L1 antibody ‑ MPDL3280A as well. Other immune checkpoints, 
such as LAG‑3, TIM‑3, BTLA, B7‑H3 and B7‑H4, are also under early evaluation.

DOI: 10.5604/17322693.1192926
PMID: 26864062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2015 Nov;46(6):842-5.

[The Protective Effect of B7-H4 on Concanavalin A Induced Hepatic Injury in 
Mice].

[Article in Chinese]

Xiao H, Pan WM, Wang CQ, Chen HY, Xu JF.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the protective effect and its mechanism of B7-H4 on the 
immuno hepatic injury.
METHODS: The immuno hepatic injury was induced by Concanavalin A (Con A). Sixty 
KM mice were randomly divided into 4 groups with 15 mice in each group: Group A 
(saline), Group B (pcDNA3.1-mB7-H4-Fc), Group C (pcDNA3.1), Group D (Con A). One 
day before the injection of Con A (25 mg/kg), the mice in Group B and Group C 
received the injection of 100 pg pcDNA3.1-mB7-H4-Fc and 100 microg pcDNA3.1 
respectively. The blood samples were collected at 12 h, 24 h and 48 h after Con 
A injection, the levels of ALT, AST, IL-4 and IFN-gamma were measured. Five mice 
in each group were sacrificed at the above 3 time points, the liver tissue were 
harvested for histopathological detection.
RESULTS: After Con A injection, the level of ALT in Group B, C, and D were 
higher than that in Group A. The level of ALT in Group B was lower than that in 
Group C and D. The significant difference was found between Group B and Group C. 
The hepatic injury of Group B was less serious than that of Group C and D.
CONCLUSION: B7-H4 may have protection on the immune injury of liver induced by 
Con A.

PMID: 26867318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Oncoimmunology. 2015 Jun 1;5(1):e1050575. doi:
10.1080/2162402X.2015.1050575.  eCollection 2016.

B7-H4 is a positive regulator of antitumor immunity.

Rahbar R(1), Ohashi PS(2).

Author information:
(1)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research; Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre; Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Immunology.
(2)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research; Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre; Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Immunology; Department of 
Medical Biophysics; University of Toronto; Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

B7-H4 (B7x, B7S1, VTCN1, DD-0110) is a member of the B7 superfamily that 
negatively regulates T cell responses.1 In addition, B7-H4 expression is 
increased on tumors and has been shown to be a negative prognostic marker for 
many cancers.2 Unexpectedly our recent study demonstrated that B7-H4 inhibited 
tumor growth and was required to promote effective antitumor responses.3.

DOI: 10.1080/2162402X.2015.1050575
PMCID: PMC4760282
PMID: 26942059


206. Anticancer Res. 2016 Mar;36(3):957-65.

A Biomarker Panel Increases the Diagnostic Performance for Epithelial Ovarian 
Cancer Type I and II in Young Women.

Leandersson P(1), Kalapotharakos G(1), Henic E(2), Borgfeldt H(3), Petzold M(4), 
Høyer-Hansen G(5), Borgfeldt C(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Department of Reproductive Medicine, Skåne University Hospital, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(3)Faculty of Engineering, LTH, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(4)Health Metrics, Sahlgrenska Academy at University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, 
Sweden.
(5)Finsen Laboratory, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, Skåne University Hospital, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden christer.borgfeldt@med.lu.se.

BACKGROUND/AIM: To assess preoperative blood levels of a biomarker panel in 
relation to the new classification system of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) 
type I and II.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Preoperative plasma levels of B7-family protein homolog 4 
(B7-H4), intact and cleaved soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor 
(suPAR), human epididymis protein 4 (HE4) and cancer antigen 125 (CA125) were 
analyzed in 350 patients with adnexal lesions.
RESULTS: The levels of suPAR(II-III), HE4, CA125 were all higher in EOC II than 
in EOC I, borderline and benign ovarian tumors. B7-H4 was increased in EOC II 
compared with benign ovarian tumors. The combination of suPAR(II-III), HE4, 
CA125 and age in premenopausal women discriminates EOC and borderline tumors 
from benign tumors to higher accuracy compared to the Risk of Ovarian Malignancy 
Algorithm (p=0.007).
CONCLUSION: The biomarker panel suPAR(II-III), HE4, CA125 and age in 
premenopausal women improved discrimination of malignant and benign ovarian 
tumors. The plasma levels of B7-H4 were increased in patients with EOC II 
compared to those with benign ovarian tumors.

Copyright© 2016 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G. 
Delinassios), All rights reserved.

PMID: 26976984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Oncol Lett. 2016 Mar;11(3):1841-1846. doi: 10.3892/ol.2016.4128. Epub 2016
Jan  19.

B7-H3 and B7-H4 are independent predictors of a poor prognosis in patients with 
pancreatic cancer.

Xu H(1), Chen X(2), Tao M(1), Chen K(1), Chen C(3), Xu G(3), Li W(1), Yuan S(1), 
Mao Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou, Jiangsu 215007, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou, Jiangsu 215007, P.R. China; Department of Hematology and Oncology, 
Central Hospital of Zhabei District, Shanghai 200070, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan 450014, P.R. China.

B7-H3 and B7-H4 belong to the peripheral membrane protein B7 family and are 
hypothesized to regulate immunity. These proteins are expressed in human 
pancreatic cancer (PC), but their prognostic significance is poorly understood. 
The present study examined the association between B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression 
and the overall survival time in patients with PC that underwent surgery at the 
Second Affiliated Hospital to Zhengzhou University between April 2000 and 
January 2009. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that B7-H3 and B7-H4 
were expressed in 35 (88%) and 30 (75%) tumor tissue samples, respectively, 
which were obtained from 40 patients with PC. Statistical analysis revealed that 
B7-H3 expression was associated with an early tumor-node-metastasis stage (stage 
I and II; P<0.01), and B7-H4 expression was associated with tumors located in 
the body and tail of the pancreas (P<0.01) and lymph node metastasis (P=0.02). 
In addition, using Spearman's rank correlation coefficient, the present study 
demonstrated a positive correlation between B7-H3 expression and B7-H4 
expression (r=0.37; P=0.02) in tumor samples. B7-H4 expression (P=0.01), tumors 
located in the pancreatic body and tail (P<0.01), lymph node metastasis (P=0.02) 
and combined B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression (P<0.01) were indicators of a poor 
overall survival time. However, solitary B7-H4 expression (P=0.03) and combined 
B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression (P=0.04) remained significant prognostic factors 
following adjustment for other prognostic factors in a multivariate Cox's 
proportional hazards regression model. Therefore, the present results indicate 
that solitary B7-H4 expression and a combination of B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression 
are independent predictors of a poor prognosis in patients with PC.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2016.4128
PMCID: PMC4774460
PMID: 26998087


208. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Jun 1;22(11):2778-2790. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0858. Epub 2016 Mar 21.

B7-H4(B7x)-Mediated Cross-talk between Glioma-Initiating Cells and Macrophages 
via the IL6/JAK/STAT3 Pathway Lead to Poor Prognosis in Glioma Patients.

Yao Y(#)(1)(2), Ye H(#)(3), Qi Z(#)(4), Mo L(#)(5), Yue Q(4), Baral A(6), Hoon 
DSB(7), Vera JC(8), Heiss JD(8), Chen CC(9), Zhang J(10), Jin K(11), Wang Y(12), 
Zang X(13), Mao Y(1)(2)(14), Zhou L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200040, China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200032, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The First Affiliated Hospital, School of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310003, P.R China.
(4)Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310016, China.
(6)Department of Neurosurgery, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
Hubei 437001, China.
(7)Dept Molecular Oncology, John Wayne Cancer Institute, Santa Monica, Ca 90404, 
USA.
(8)Surgical Neurology Branch, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 
Stroke, National Institutes of Health, 10 Center Drive, 10/3D20, MSC-1414, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20892-1414, USA.
(9)Center for Theoretic and Applied Oncology, University of California, San 
Diego, CA 92093, USA.
(10)School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310009, P.R 
China.
(11)Department of Pharmacology, University of North Texas Health Science Center, 
Fort Worth, TX76107, USA.
(12)Department of Neuropathology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200040, China.
(13)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, NY 10461, USA.
(14)State Key Laboratory of Medical Neurobiology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences and Institutes of Brain Science, Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, 
China.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to evaluate clinical significance and 
immunosuppressive mechanisms of B7-H4 (B7x/B7S1), a B7 family member, in glioma.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: B7-H4 levels in glioma tissue/cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) 
were compared between different grades of glioma patients. Survival data were 
analyzed with Kaplan-Meier to determine the prognostic value of B7-H4. Cytokines 
from CD133(+) cells to stimulate the expression of B7-H4 on human macrophages 
(Mφs) were investigated by FACS, neutralizing antibodies, and Transwell 
chemotaxis assay. shRNA, reporter vector, and chromatin immunoprecipitation were 
used to determine the binding of STAT3 to the B7-H4 promoter. The function of 
B7-H4(+) Mφs in vitro was evaluated through phagocytosis, T-cell 
proliferation/apoptosis, and cytokine production as well as in the xenografted 
model for in vivo analysis.
RESULTS: We found that B7-H4 expression in tumors was associated with prognosis 
of human glioblastoma and correlated directly with malignant grades. 
Mechanistically, glioma initiating CD133(+) cells and Mφs/microglia 
cointeraction activated expression of B7-H4 via IL6 and IL10 in both tumor cells 
and microenvironment supporting cells. IL6-activated STAT3 bound to the promoter 
of B7-H4 gene and enhanced B7-H4 expression. Furthermore, CD133(+) cells 
mediated immunosuppression through B7-H4 expression on Mφs/microglia by 
silencing of B7-H4 expression on these cells, which led to increased 
microenvironment T-cell function and tumor regression in the xenograft glioma 
mouse model.
CONCLUSIONS: We have identified B7-H4 activation on Mφs/microglia in the 
microenvironment of gliomas as an important immunosuppressive event blocking 
effective T-cell immune responses. Clin Cancer Res; 22(11); 2778-90. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-0858
PMCID: PMC4891287
PMID: 27001312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Apr;32(4):437-41.

[Sunitinib inhibits the expressions of co-stimulatory molecule ligands on 
dendritic cells].

[Article in Chinese]

Ding C(1), Mai H(2), Chen L(3), Zhang B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Clinical College, No. 307 Hospital of PLA, Anhui 
Medical University, Beijing 100071, China.
(2)Department of Urology, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing 100071, 
China.
(3)Department of Urology, Clinical College, No. 307 Hospital of PLA, Anhui 
Medical University, Department of Urology, Academy of Military Medical Sciences, 
Beijing 100071, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: chenlj829@163.com.
(4)Department of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, Affiliated Hospital, 
Academy of Military Medical Sciences, Beijing 100071, China. *Corresponding 
authors, E-mail: zb307ctc@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of sunitinib on the expressions of 
co-stimulatory molecule ligands, programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1), PD-L2, CD80, 
CD86, B7-H4 and herpes virus entry mediator (HVEM) on peripheral blood 
monocyte-derived dendritic cells (DCs) from patients with renal cell carcinoma 
(RCC).
METHODS: Monocyte-derived DCs from patients with RCC were cultured in vitro and 
randomly divided into three groups: sunitinib combined with lipopolysaccharide 
(LPS), LPS only and dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) treatment. Sunitinib plus LPS 
group was pretreated with 200 ng/mL sunitinib for 12 hours followed by 
stimulated with 1 μg/mL LPS for 24 hours; LPS group was pretreated with 1 μL/mL 
DMSO for 12 hours and then stimulated with 1 μg/mL LPS for 24 hours; DMSO group 
was treated with 1 μL/mL DMSO for 36 hours. Morphological changes were observed 
by an inverted microscope. Flow cytometry was used to detect the expressions of 
PD-L1, PD-L2, CD80, CD86, B7-H4 and HVEM.
RESULTS: Sunitinib-LPS co-treated and LPS-treated cells had typical dendrites, 
while DMSO-treated cells had no obvious dendrites. Compared with the LPS-treated 
group, the expressions of CD80, PD-L1 and B7-H4 on DCs significantly decreased 
in the sunitinib-LPS group; the expressions of PD-L1, PD-L2, CD80, CD86, B7-H4 
and HVEM were lower in the DMSO group.
CONCLUSION: Sunitinib inhibits the expressions of CD80, PD-L1 and B7-H4 on DCs 
induced by LPS.

PMID: 27053605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Oncotarget. 2016 Nov 22;7(47):76523-76533. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.8598.

Prognostic role of high B7-H4 expression in patients with solid tumors: a 
meta-analysis.

Song X(1), Shao Y(1), Gu W(1), Xu C(2), Mao H(2), Pei H(1), Jiang J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Changzhou 213003, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Laboratory, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Changzhou 213003, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Recently, many studies have shown that B7-H4 exhibits altered 
expression in various cancers. We performed a meta-analysis to evaluate the 
prognostic role of B7-H4 expression in solid tumors.
RESULTS: Data from 18 observational studies and 2467 patients were summarized. 
An elevated baseline B7-H4 was significantly associated with worse OS (pooled HR 
= 1.79; 95% CI = 1.56-2.06). Differences across subgroups of tumor type, 
patients' ethnicity, analysis type, HR obtain method and cut-off value were not 
significant (PD = 0.313, PD = 0.716, PD = 0.896, PD = 0.290 and PD = 0.153, 
respectively). Furthermore, patients with high B7-H4 had a significantly shorter 
DFS (pooled HR = 2.12; 95%CI = 1.45-3.09).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We searched PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library (last 
update by November 26, 2015) to identify studies assessing the effect of B7-H4 
on survival of cancer patients. Pooled hazard ratios (HRs) for overall survival 
(OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) were estimated using fixed-effects models 
and random-effects models respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis clarified that high B7-H4 expression in tissue 
was significantly associated with poor survival in patients with solid tumors. 
Future clinical studies are warranted to determine whether B7-H4 blockade has a 
favorable effect on disease recurrence and mortality.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.8598
PMCID: PMC5363528
PMID: 27058425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare that 
they have no conflicts of interest concerning this article.


211. Oncol Lett. 2016 Apr;11(4):2815-2819. doi: 10.3892/ol.2016.4301. Epub 2016
Mar  2.

Clinical relevance of expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 in ovarian cancer.

Xu M(1), Zhang B(1), Zhang M(1), Liu Y(1), Yin FL(1), Liu X(2), Zhuo SC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Central Hospital of Xuzhou, Xuzhou, 
Jiangsu 221009, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Central Hospital of Xuzhou, Xuzhou, Jiangsu 221009, 
P.R. China.

The aim of the present study was to investigate the expression of B7-H1 and 
B7-H4 in ovarian neoplasm tissues and to examine their clinical relevance. A 
total of 112 ovarian biopsies were collected from patients with epithelial 
ovarian cancer (EOC) and 10 were taken from ovarian benign neoplasms. The 
samples were processed in paraffin tissue chips, and subjected to 
immunohistochemical staining and analysis. Associations of B7-H1 and B7-H4 
expression with patients' clinical parameters, such as histological typing, cell 
grading, International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics staging, tumor 
size, and metastatic status, were examined by statistical analysis. Survival 
curves were constructed using the Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test. 
Independent prognostic factors were evaluated using the Cox regression model. 
The results showed an extremely low or negative expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 in 
the 10 benign ovarian neoplasm tissues (control): By contrast, a positive 
expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 was observed in 55.4% (62/112) and 37.5% (42/112) 
of the EOC tissues, respectively. The differences between the two groups were 
significant. In addition, the co-expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 was found in 
31.3% (35/112) of the EOC cases. Furthermore, the progression-free survival and 
overall survival were significantly lower in EOC patients with a high expression 
of B7-H1 and B7-H4 (χ2=45.60 and 37.99, respectively). These results 
demonstrated that the expression of B7-H1 and B7-H4 in EOC tissues was 
significantly associated with poor prognosis and high relapse rate of EOC. The 
findings suggest that B7-H1 and B7-H4 is a negative prognostic marker for EOC 
and a potential immunotherapeutic target for patients with EOC.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2016.4301
PMCID: PMC4812522
PMID: 27073557


212. Cancer Sci. 2016 Jul;107(7):944-54. doi: 10.1111/cas.12949. Epub 2016 May
27.

B7-H4 facilitates proliferation of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma cells 
through promoting interleukin-6/signal transducer and activator of transcription 
3 pathway activation.

Chen X(1), Wang L(2), Wang W(1)(3), Zhao L(1), Shan B(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Center, Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, 
China.
(2)Hebei Cancer Research Institute, Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, China.
(3)Clinical Laboratory, Hebei General Hospital, Shijiazhuang, China.

B7-H4, one of the costimulatory molecules of the B7 family, has been found to be 
widely expressed in many kinds of tumor tissues and to play an important part in 
tumor progression and poor prognosis. However, the role of B7-H4 in esophageal 
squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) cells has not been elucidated. In this study, we 
found that, compared with normal esophageal tissue, B7-H4 was highly expressed 
in three ESCC cell lines, Eca109, TE1, and TE13. B7-H4 silenced cells suppressed 
cellular proliferation and colony formation. Additionally, compared with control 
cells, B7-H4 silenced cells showed higher apoptosis rates, Bcl-2 and Survivin 
upregulation, and BAX downregulation. Further study revealed that B7-H4 silenced 
cells also showed reduction in interleukin-6 (IL-6) secretion, signal transducer 
and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) activation, and p-STAT3 translocation 
from cytoplasm to nucleus. Moreover, B7-H4 depletion inhibited the IL-6 
secretion of control cells but not JAK2/STAT3 inhibitor FLLL32-treated cells. 
Interleukin-6 receptor antagonist tocilizumab did not block the p-JAK2 or 
p-STAT3 downregulation induced by B7-H4 silence. It was suggested that B7-H4 
silence suppressed IL-6 secretion through JAK2/STAT3 inactivation. Furthermore, 
cell proliferation and colony formation were downregulated by tocilizumab in 
control cells but not in B7-H4 silenced cells, indicating that IL-6 upregulation 
induced by B7-H4 was necessary for cell growth. On the other hand, B7-H4 
expression was downregulated by tocilizumab. In all, our study provided the 
first evidence that B7-H4 facilitated ESCC cell proliferation through promoting 
IL-6/STAT3 positive loopback pathway activation.

© 2016 The Authors. Cancer Science published by John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd 
on behalf of Japanese Cancer Association.

DOI: 10.1111/cas.12949
PMCID: PMC4946714
PMID: 27088889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Oncol Rep. 2016 Jul;36(1):419-27. doi: 10.3892/or.2016.4807. Epub 2016 May
13.

Aberrant expression of B7-H4 correlates with poor prognosis and suppresses 
tumor-infiltration of CD8+ T lymphocytes in human cholangiocarcinoma.

Zhao X(1), Guo F(1), Li Z(1), Jiang P(1), Deng X(1), Tian F(1), Li X(1), Wang 
S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Southwest Hospital, Third Military 
Medical University, Shapingba, Chongqing 400038, P.R. China.

B7-H4, as a member of the costimulatory B7 family, serves a critical role in the 
negative regulation of T cell-mediated antitumor immune responses. 
Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) has a poor prognosis due its invasiveness and 
associated metastasis. The present study investigated the expression of B7-H4 in 
patients with CCA and its association with patient prognosis. The correlation 
between B7-H4 expression and CD4+ and CD8+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes was 
also investigated. The results demonstrated that high B7-H4 expression was 
detected in cancer tissues (54/110; 49.1%) compared with that noted in chronic 
inflammatory bile duct tissues (4/19; 21.1%). Furthermore, all 8 biliary adenoma 
samples showed negative staining. The expression of B7-H4 was significantly 
associated with adverse clinical and pathological features including histologic 
grade (P<0.001), tumor status (P=0.025), lymph node metastasis (P=0.035) and 6th 
Union for International Cancer Control stage (P=0.019). Kaplan‑Meier survival 
analysis and Cox regression analysis indicated that aberrant B7-H4 expression 
was a significant independent predictor of poor overall survival and early 
recurrence. In addition, the present study demonstrated that B7-H4 expression in 
tumor cells was negatively correlated with the density of CD8+ T cells in the 
tumor stroma. Co-culture assays indicated that knockdown of B7-H4 increased CD8+ 
T cell-mediated cytotoxicity in vitro, suggesting that the expression of B7-H4 
may serve a role in shielding tumors from immune surveillance by suppression of 
tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T lymphocytes in CCA. In conclusion, the present study 
showed that aberrant expression of B7-H4 was correlated with poorer prognosis 
and suppressed CD8+ tumor‑infiltrating lymphocytes in CCA.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2016.4807
PMID: 27177355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. World J Gastroenterol. 2016 May 14;22(18):4538-46. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v22.i18.4538.

Expression of B7-H4 and hepatitis B virus X in hepatitis B virus-related 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Hong B(1), Qian Y(1), Zhang H(1), Sang YW(1), Cheng LF(1), Wang Q(1), Gao S(1), 
Zheng M(1), Yao HP(1).

Author information:
(1)Bo Hong, Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, Zhejiang Province, China.

AIM: To investigate the expression and clinical significance of B7-H4 and 
hepatitis B virus X (HBx) protein in hepatitis B virus-related hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HBV-HCC).
METHODS: The expression of B7-H4 in the human HCC cell lines HepG2 and 
HepG2.2.15 were detected by western blot, flow cytometry, and 
immunofluorescence. The expression of B7-H4 and HBx in 83 HBV-HCC was detected 
by immunohistochemistry, and the relationship with clinicopathological features 
was analyzed. Paraffin sections were generated from 83 HBV-HCC patients (22 
females and 61 males) enrolled in this study. The age of these patients ranged 
from 35 to 77 years, with an average of 52.5 ± 11.3 years. All experiments were 
approved by the Ethics Committees of the Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine.
RESULTS: B7-H4 was significantly upregulated in HepG2.2.15 cells compared to 
HepG2 cells. Specifically, the protein expression of B7-H4 in the lysates of 
HepG2 cells was more than that in HepG2.2.15 cells. In addition, HBx was 
expressed only in HepG2.2.15 cells. Similar data were obtained by flow 
cytometry. The positive rates of B7-H4 and HBx in the tissues of 83 HBV-HCC 
patients were 68.67% (57/83) and 59.04% (49/83), respectively. The expression of 
HBx was correlated with tumor node metastases (TNM) stage, and the expression of 
B7-H4 was positively correlated with HBx (rs = 0.388; P < 0.01). The expression 
level of B7-H4 in HBx-positive HBV-HCC tissues was substantially higher than 
that in HBx-negative HBV-HCC tissues. The expression level of B7H4 was 
negatively related to tumor TNM stage.
CONCLUSION: Higher expression of HBx and B7-H4 was correlated with tumor 
progression of HBV-HCC, suggesting that B7-H4 may be involved in facilitating 
HBV-related hepatocarcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v22.i18.4538
PMCID: PMC4858635
PMID: 27182163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Clin Respir J. 2018 Jan;12(1):134-139. doi: 10.1111/crj.12499. Epub 2016 Jun
15.

Diagnosis value of serum soluble B7-H4 expression in non-small cell lung cancer.

Xu CH(1), Wang W(1), Wang YC(1), Lin Y(2), Zhang XW(3).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Center of Nanjing Respiratory Diseases and Imaging, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, 210029, China.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nanjing Chest Hospital, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 
210029, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Nanjing Jiangning Hospital, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu, 211100, China.

INTRODUCTION: B7-H4, a member of the inhibitory B7 family, can restrain T cell 
proliferation, activation, cytokine secretion, and may be involved in immune 
evasion in cancer patients.
OBJECTIVES: This aim of the study was to determine the expression level of 
soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) in circulation and to subsequently evaluate the clinical 
significance of circulating sB7-H4 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC).
METHODS: Serum specimens from 128 patients with NSCLC, 100 healthy volunteers 
(HV), and 80 patients with benign lung diseases (BLD) were collected. The 
concentrations of sB7-H4 were measured by sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay.
RESULTS: Serum sB7-H4 levels in patients with NSCLC were significantly higher 
than those in patients with BLD (P < 0.05), or those in HV (P < 0.05). Using a 
cutoff of 27.8 ng/mL, the sensitivity and specificity of sB7-H4 in 
differentiating between patients with NSCLC and patients with BLD, and between 
patients with NSCLC and HV was, 46.9% and 92.5%, and 54.7% and 95.0%, 
respectively. An area under the curve (AUC) for NSCLC resulting from sB7-H4 
(0.863), which was significantly better than any other tumour markers tested 
including CA125 (0.763), and CEA (0.775).
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, assessment of serum sB7-H4 levels could be considered 
as a diagnostic biomarker for NSCLC.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/crj.12499
PMID: 27216449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Int Immunopharmacol. 2016 Sep;38:97-103. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2016.05.020.
Epub  2016 Jun 1.

Could B7-H4 serve as a target to activate anti-cancer immunity?

Wang L(1), Heng X(2), Lu Y(3), Cai Z(4), Yi Q(5), Che F(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hematology Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, 
Shandong University, Linyi, Shandong Province, China. Electronic address: 
wanglj730@163.com.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, 
Linyi, Shandong Province, China. Electronic address: hengxy6@163.com.
(3)Department of Cancer Biology, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address: LUY2@ccf.org.
(4)Department of Hematology, Bone Marrow Transplantation Center, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
Province, China. Electronic address: caiz@zju.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Cancer Biology, Lerner Research Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic address: yiq@ccf.org.
(6)Department of Neurology, Central Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, 
Shandong University, Linyi, Shandong Province, China. Electronic address: 
che1971@126.com.

It has been over 13years since the identification of B7-H4, the co-stimulatory 
molecule of B7 family members. While B7-H4 mRNA is widely distributed protein 
expression seems to be limited on tissues. Various cytokines and inflammatory 
mediators induce the expression of B7-H4. However, the specific regulatory 
mechanisms of B7-H4 remain to be defined. Recently, it has been shown that B7-H4 
executes an inhibitory function in the T-cell response via reduced expansion, 
cell cycle arrest, decreased cytokine secretion and induced apoptosis of 
activated T-cells. Furthermore, B7-H4 suppresses the function of antigen 
presenting cells (APCs) and promotes the proliferation and development of 
regulatory T-cells (Treg). Moreover, a growing body of literature demonstrates 
that various cancers express B7-H4 and that the expression levels of B7-H4 
correlate with cancer size, histological type, pathologic stage, grade, 
infiltration, lymph node metastasis, cancer progression, recurrence and death. 
The over-expression of B7-H4 in cancer may be related to an increased resistance 
to immune responses. The aim of this review is to supply an overview of the 
advances in the regulation and function of B7-H4. Additionally, many studies 
have suggested that B7-H4 is a molecular target for therapeutic intervention in 
cancer and that targeting B7-H4 may have promising potential for improving the 
efficacy of immunotherapy for cancer patients.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2016.05.020
PMID: 27258187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Cancer Med. 2016 Aug;5(8):1810-20. doi: 10.1002/cam4.754. Epub 2016 Jun 12.

Higher preoperative serum levels of PD-L1 and B7-H4 are associated with invasive 
and metastatic potential and predictable for poor response to VEGF-targeted 
therapy and unfavorable prognosis of renal cell carcinoma.

Fukuda T(1), Kamai T(1), Masuda A(2), Nukui A(3), Abe H(1), Arai K(1), Yoshida 
K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Dokkyo Medical University, Tochigi, Japan.
(2)Dialysis center, Dokkyo Medical University Koshigaya Hospital, Saitama, 
Japan.
(3)Department of Urology, Nasu Red Cross Hospital, Tochigi, Japan.

Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is an immunogenic and proangiogenic cancer. Although 
antivascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) therapies achieve impressive 
responses in some patients, many tumors eventually develop resistance to such 
therapy. The B7 family molecules such as CTLA-4, PD-1, and PD-L1 are pivotal 
players in immune checkpoints that positively or negatively regulate various 
immune responses. Recently, immunotherapy based on blocking immune checkpoints 
with anti-CTLA4, anti-PD-1, or anti-PD-L1 antibodies has been proposed as a 
potential new approach to the treatment of metastatic RCC. Higher expression of 
PD-L1 and B7-H4 in the tumors is associated with a poor prognosis in RCCs, 
however, the clinical impact of serum levels of B7 family molecules has not been 
elucidated in patients with metastatic RCCs receiving VEGF-targeted agents. We 
assessed the preoperative serum levels of B7 family molecules, including CD80, 
CD86, PD-1, PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, and CTLA-4, and CD28 in RCC patients, and 
determined their relations with various clinicopathological characteristics. 
Elevated preoperative serum levels of PD-L1 and B7-H4 were correlated with less 
differentiated tumors, higher invasive and metastatic potential, a worse 
response to anti-VEGF therapy, and shorter overall survival. These findings 
suggested that investigating preoperative serum levels of PD-L1 and B7-H4 might 
not only be useful to assess the biological aggressiveness of RCCs, but also to 
predict the efficacy of anti-VEGF therapy and the eventual prognosis, indicating 
the future design of clinical trials of therapies targeting immune checkpoint in 
advanced RCCs.

© 2016 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.754
PMCID: PMC4971909
PMID: 27292320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2016 Aug;76(2):149-54. doi: 10.1111/aji.12527. Epub
2016  Jun 15.

Serum concentrations of soluble B7-H4 in early pregnancy are elevated in women 
with preterm premature rupture of fetal membranes.

Mach P(1), Köninger A(1), Wicherek L(2), Kimmig R(1), Kasimir-Bauer S(1), Birdir 
C(1), Schmidt B(3), Gellhaus A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, 
Germany.
(2)Chair of Oncology, Radiotherapy and Gynecologic Oncology of the Ludwik 
Rydygier Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Nicolaus Copernicus University, 
Bydgoszcz, Poland.
(3)Institute for Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology (IMIBE), 
University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.

PROBLEM: To determine the association between maternal soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) 
and the preterm premature rupture of the amniotic membranes (pPROM), the blood 
serum concentration levels of sB7-H4 were studied.
METHOD OF STUDY: Maternal serum levels of sB7-H4 were determined with 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in patients between 11 and 13 weeks' 
gestation who later on in the pregnancy developed pPROM (n=21), premature 
rupture of the amniotic membranes at term (n=18), and in control group (n=27).
RESULTS: The highest serum levels of sB7-H4 were found in patients who developed 
pPROM. An OR of 1.39 (95%-CI: 1.17-1.77; P=.002) per ng/mL sB7-H4 indicated an 
increased risk for developing pPROM, with some predictive ability to 
discriminate between pPROM cases and controls (AUC=.81).
CONCLUSION: Increased serum levels of sB7-H4 in early pregnancy in pPROM cases 
may indicate the dynamics of the immune response at the feto-maternal interface 
and, thus, may serve as a predictive marker for this pregnancy complication.

© 2016 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aji.12527
PMID: 27302185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Biomarkers. 2016 Jun 20:1-16. doi: 10.1080/1354750X.2016.1203997. Online
ahead  of print.

Prognostic values of B7-H4 in non-small cell lung cancer.

Wang W(1)(2), Xu C(1)(2), Wang Y(1)(2), Yu L(1)(2), Zhang X(3).

Author information:
(1)a Endoscopic Center of Nanjing Chest Hospital , Nanjing , Jiangsu 210029 , 
China.
(2)b Clinical Center of Nanjing Respiratory Diseases and Imaging , Nanjing , 
Jiangsu 210029 , China.
(3)c Department of Respiratory Medicine , Nanjing Jiangning Hospital , Nanjing , 
Jiangsu 211100 , China.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to explore the prognostic value of serum 
soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) levels in patients with non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC).
METHODS: Serum specimens from 316 NSCLC patients and 240 healthy controls were 
collected. The concentrations of sB7-H4 were measured by ELISA.
RESULTS: The levels of sB7-H4 in NSCLC patients were significantly higher than 
that of the controls (P<0.01). Multivariate survival analysis indicated that 
sB7-H4 was an independent prognostic indicator of overall survival and 
progression-free survival (P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Measurement of serum sB7-H4 might be a useful prognostic biomarker 
for NSCLC.

DOI: 10.1080/1354750X.2016.1203997
PMID: 27321138


220. Hum Pathol. 2016 Nov;57:1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2016.06.011. Epub 2016
Jun  24.

B7-H4 expression in ovarian serous carcinoma: a study of 306 cases.

Liang L(1), Jiang Y(2), Chen JS(1), Niu N(1), Piao J(3), Ning J(3), Zu Y(4), 
Zhang J(5), Liu J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA 77030.
(2)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA 77030; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, People's Republic of 
China 210029.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA 77030.
(4)Department of Pathology and Genomic Medicine, Houston Methodist Hospital, 
Houston, TX, USA 77030. Electronic address: yzu@HoustonMethodist.org.
(5)Department of Pathology, Xijing Hospital, Fourth Military Medical University, 
Xi'an, People's Republic of China 710032. Electronic address: 
jzhang@fmmu.edu.cn.
(6)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA 77030. Electronic address: jliu@mdanderson.org.

The B7 family of immune costimulatory ligands is a group of cell surface 
proteins that bind to the surface receptors of lymphocytes to fine-tune immune 
responses. The aberrant expression of these proteins plays a key role in tumor 
immune evasion. Immunotherapy targeting certain B7 family members, including 
programmed death ligand 1, has proven quite effective in suppressing tumor 
growth. However, why such therapy works in only a subgroup of tumors is unclear. 
We hypothesized that other B7 family members, either alone or in concert with 
programmed death ligand 1, play a crucial role in tumor pathogenesis and 
progression. We therefore examined the expression of a newly discovered B7 
family member, B7-H4, in 306 cases of ovarian serous carcinoma by 
immunohistochemistry. We found that 91% (267/293) of the high-grade ovarian 
serous carcinomas and 69% (9/13) of the low-grade ovarian serous carcinomas 
expressed B7-H4. The difference between B7-H4 expression in high-grade and 
low-grade ovarian serous carcinoma was statistically significant (P=.002). 
Moreover, B7-H4 protein expression in high-grade serous carcinoma was associated 
with tumor stage (P<.01) but not overall survival or disease-free survival. In 
conclusion, B7-H4 is frequently expressed in ovarian serous carcinomas, 
especially high-grade serous carcinomas, and may represent a novel 
immunotherapeutic target in this cancer.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2016.06.011
PMCID: PMC5077670
PMID: 27349304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2016 Sep;65(9):1035-45. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-016-1867-9. Epub 2016 Jul 6.

B7-H4 expression indicates poor prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma.

Wu L(1), Deng WW(1), Yu GT(1), Mao L(1), Bu LL(1), Ma SR(1), Liu B(1)(2), Zhang 
WF(1)(2), Sun ZJ(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology and 
Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine, Ministry of Education, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, 237 Luoyu Road, Wuhan, 430079, Hubei Province, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology and 
Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine, Ministry of Education, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, People's Republic of China. sunzj@whu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, 237 Luoyu Road, Wuhan, 430079, Hubei Province, 
People's Republic of China. sunzj@whu.edu.cn.

Checkpoint blockade therapy utilizing monoclonal antibodies to reactivate T 
cells and recover their antitumor activity makes an epoch in cancer 
immunotherapy. The role of B7-H4, a novel negative immune checkpoint, in oral 
squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) has still not been elucidated. In this study, 
tissue samples from human OSCC, which contains 165 primary OSCC, 48 oral 
epithelial dysplasia and 43 normal oral mucosa specimens, and Tgfbr1/Pten 2cKO 
mice OSCC model were stained with B7-H4 antibody to analyze the correlations 
between B7-H4 expression and clinicopathological characteristics. Kaplan-Meier 
analysis was used to compare the survival of patients with high B7-H4 expression 
and patients with low B7-H4 expression. We found B7-H4 is highly expressed in 
human OSCC tissue, and the B7-H4 expression level was associated with the 
clinicopathological parameters containing pathological grade and lymph node 
status. Moreover, we confirmed that B7-H4 was overexpressed in Tgfbr1/Pten 2cKO 
mice OSCC model. Our data also indicated that patients with high B7-H4 
expression had poor overall survival compared with those with low B7-H4 
expression. Furthermore, this study demonstrated that B7-H4 was positively 
associated with PD-L1, CD11b, CD33, PI3Kα p110, and p-S6 (S235/236). Taken 
together, these findings suggest B7-H4 is a potential target in the treatment of 
OSCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-016-1867-9
PMID: 27383830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Mol Med Rep. 2016 Sep;14(3):2135-42. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5510. Epub 2016
Jul  13.

B7-H4 expression in human infiltrating ductal carcinoma‑associated macrophages.

Liu L(1), Li D(2), Chen S(1), Zhao R(3), Pang D(2), Li D(1), Fu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Heilongjiang Provincial Key Laboratory for 
Infection and Immunity, Heilongjiang Academy of Medical Sciences, Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150081, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Breast Surgery, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 150081, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, Heilongjiang 
150081, P.R. China.

B7-H4 is a co‑inhibitory molecule of the B7 family, which is expressed on 
antigen‑presenting cells (APCs) and is able to limit the T‑cell immune response. 
Macrophages act as professional APCs and are important for immunoregulation of 
the tumor microenvironment in breast cancer. In order to identify the 
association between the presence of B7‑H4 on macrophages and infiltrating ductal 
carcinoma (IDC), the present study investigated the expression of B7‑H4 on 
macrophages with different polarizations. The expression levels of B7‑H4 in IDC 
tissues were determined using immunohistochemistry, and the expression of B7‑H4 
on macrophages in the breast IDC microenvironment were determined using western 
blot analysis and reverse transcription‑quantitative polymerase chain reaction 
(RT‑qPCR). The expression levels of interleukin (IL)‑6 and IL‑10 were detected 
in IDC tissues and the supernatants of polarized macrophages using an 
enzyme‑linked immunosorbent assay and RT‑qPCR. The present study demonstrated 
that B7‑H4 was overexpressed in IDC tissues and macrophages. In vitro, M1 and M2 
macrophages exhibited different expression levels of B7‑H4. IL‑6 and ‑10 
exhibited higher expression in the IDC tissues compared with in distal 
pericarcinomatous tissues. In conclusion, B7‑H4 exhibited overexpression in IDC 
tissues and cultured macrophage cells. Furthermore, M2 macrophages exhibited 
higher expression levels of B7‑H4 compared with the M1 subtype. In addition, 
IL‑6 and ‑10 may be associated with B7‑H4 expression on macrophages of different 
polarizations in the IDC microenvironment.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5510
PMID: 27430170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Oncotarget. 2016 Sep 6;7(36):58563-58568. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.10542.

Nuclear localization of B7-H4 in pulmonary adenocarcinomas presenting as a 
solitary pulmonary nodule.

Chen C(1), Zhu WD(2), Xie F(3), Huang JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou, 215006, China.
(2)Pathology Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou, 215006, China.
(3)Pathology Department, Soochow University, Suzhou, 215006, China.

PURPOSE: Although the pathogenicity of B7-H4 in cancer is well established, its 
role in pulmonary adenocarcinoma, especially lesions presenting as solitary 
pulmonary nodules (SPNs), remains unclear.
METHODS: 40 cases of pulmonary adenocarcinoma presenting with SPN were enrolled 
during year 2012-2015. The B7-H4 expression and its subcellular distribution in 
pulmonary adenocarcinoma presenting with SPN were analyzed by 
immunohistochemistry, further its correlation with Ki-67 expression and CT 
feature. In vitro, the B7-H4 expression in the cytoplasmic and nucleus fractions 
of lung cancer cell lines was determinate by western blotting.
RESULTS: Immunostaining revealed B7-H4 in the cytoplasm of cells from all 40 SPN 
samples studied. No surface localization of B7-H4 was detected, but in 18 
samples the nuclear membranes were B7-H4-positive. Moreover, patients with more 
poorly differentiated and invasive adenocarcinomas showed greater localization 
of B7-H4 to the nuclear membrane. The percentage of lesions with ground-glass 
opacity was significantly greater among samples negative for nuclear membrane 
B7-H4. Most importantly, there was a statistically significant relationships 
between the Ki-67 index and B7-H4 positivity of the nuclear membrane. This 
suggests tumors exhibiting higher nuclear membrane B7-H4 have greater 
proliferative potential. Western blotting confirmed both cytoplasmic and nuclear 
B7-H4 localization in lung adenocarcinoma cell lines.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our study provides a new insight into the 
tumorigenicity of B7-H4 in lung adenocarcinoma. We suggest that in pulmonary 
adenocarcinoma presenting with SPN, nuclear membrane localization of B7-H4 
within the tumor cells is associated with increased malignancy.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.10542
PMCID: PMC5295452
PMID: 27438152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


224. Mol Ther. 2016 Nov;24(11):1987-1999. doi: 10.1038/mt.2016.149. Epub 2016 Jul
21.

Tumor Regression and Delayed Onset Toxicity Following B7-H4 CAR T Cell Therapy.

Smith JB(1), Lanitis E(2), Dangaj D(3), Buza E(4), Poussin M(1), Stashwick C(5), 
Scholler N(6), Powell DJ Jr(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Center for Cellular 
Immunotherapies, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA; Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Ovarian Cancer Research Center, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Center for Cellular 
Immunotherapies, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA; Ludwig Institute for Cancer 
Research, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ovarian Cancer Research Center, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA; Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, University of Lausanne, 
Lausanne, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Pathobiology, University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary 
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ovarian Cancer Research Center, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA; Lancaster General Health, Penn Medicine, Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ovarian Cancer Research Center, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA; SRI Biosciences, Menlo Park, California, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Center for Cellular 
Immunotherapies, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA; Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Ovarian Cancer Research Center, Perelman School of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. Electronic address: 
poda@mail.med.upenn.edu.

B7-H4 protein is frequently overexpressed in ovarian cancer. Here, we engineered 
T cells with novel B7-H4-specific chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) that 
recognized both human and murine B7-H4 to test the hypothesis that B7-H4 CAR T 
cell therapy can be applied safely in preclinical models. B7-H4 CAR T cells 
specifically secreted IFN-γ and lysed B7-H4(+) targets. In vivo, B7-H4 CAR T 
cells displayed antitumor reactivity against B7-H4(+) human ovarian tumor 
xenografts. Unexpectedly, B7-H4 CAR T cell treatment reproducibly showed 
delayed, lethal toxicity 6-8 weeks after therapy. Comprehensive assessment of 
murine B7-H4 protein distribution uncovered expression in ductal and mucosal 
epithelial cells in normal tissues. Postmortem analysis revealed the presence of 
widespread histologic lesions that correlated with B7-H4(+) expression, and were 
inconsistent with graft versus host disease. Lastly, expression patterns of 
B7-H4 protein in normal human tissue were comparable to distribution in mice, 
advancing our understanding of B7-H4. We conclude that B7-H4 CAR therapy 
mediates control of cancer outgrowth. However, long-term engraftment of B7-H4 
CAR T cells mediates lethal, off-tumor toxicity that is likely due to wide 
expression of B7-H4 in healthy mouse organs. This model system provides a unique 
opportunity for preclinical evaluation of safety approaches that limit 
CAR-mediated toxicity after tumor destruction in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2016.149
PMCID: PMC5154474
PMID: 27439899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jan 15;23(2):370-378. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0150.  Epub 2016 Jul 20.

Differential Expression and Significance of PD-L1, IDO-1, and B7-H4 in Human 
Lung Cancer.

Schalper KA(1)(2)(3), Carvajal-Hausdorf D(4), McLaughlin J(2), Altan M(2), 
Velcheti V(5), Gaule P(4), Sanmamed MF(6), Chen L(6), Herbst RS(2), Rimm 
DL(4)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut. 
kurt.schalper@yale.edu.
(2)Medical Oncology Section, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(3)Translational Immuno-oncology Laboratory, Yale Cancer Center, New Haven, 
Connecticut.
(4)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(5)Solid Tumor Oncology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(6)Immunobiology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.

PURPOSE: To determine the expression level, associations, and biological role of 
PD-L1, IDO-1, and B7-H4 in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Using multiplexed quantitative immunofluorescence (QIF), we 
measured the levels of PD-L1, IDO-1, B7-H4, and different tumor-infiltrating 
lymphoycte (TIL) subsets in 552 stages I-IV lung carcinomas from two independent 
populations. Associations between the marker levels, TILs, and major 
clinicopathologic variables were determined. Validation of findings was 
performed using mRNA expression data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and in 
vitro stimulation of lung adenocarcinoma A549 cells with IFNγ and IL10.
RESULTS: PD-L1 was detected in 16.9% and 21.8% of cases in each population. 
IDO-1 was expressed in 42.6% and 49.8%; and B7-H4 in 12.8% and 22.6% of cases, 
respectively. Elevated PD-L1 and IDO-1 were consistently associated with 
prominent B- and T-cell infiltrates, but B7-H4 was not. Coexpression of the 
three protein markers was infrequent, and comparable results were seen in the 
lung cancer TCGA dataset. Levels of PD-L1 and IDO-1 (but not B7-H4) were 
increased by IFNγ stimulation in A549 cells. Treatment with IL10 upregulated 
B7-H4 but did not affect PD-L1 and IDO-1 levels.
CONCLUSIONS: PD-L1, IDO-1, and B7-H4 are differentially expressed in human lung 
carcinomas and show limited co-expression. While PD-L1 and IDO-1 are associated 
with increased TILs and IFNγ stimulation, B7-H4 is not. The preferential 
expression of discrete immune evasion pathways in lung cancer could participate 
in therapeutic resistance and support design of optimal clinical trials. Clin 
Cancer Res; 23(2); 370-8. ©2016 AACR.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-0150
PMCID: PMC6350535
PMID: 27440266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: All authors have declared 
no conflict of interest with the data presented.


226. Mol Ther. 2016 Nov;24(11):1965-1973. doi: 10.1038/mt.2016.168. Epub 2016 Aug
26.

In Vivo Gene Delivery to Lymph Node Stromal Cells Leads to Transgene-specific 
CD8+ T Cell Anergy in Mice.

Ciré S(1), Da Rocha S(1), Ferrand M(1), Collins MK(2), Galy A(3).

Author information:
(1)Research unit UMR_S951, Genethon, Inserm, Univ Evry, EPHE, Evry, France.
(2)Infection and Immunity Department, University College London, London, UK; 
National Institute of Biological Standards and Control, Potters Bar, UK.
(3)Research unit UMR_S951, Genethon, Inserm, Univ Evry, EPHE, Evry, France. 
Electronic address: galy@genethon.fr.

Lymph node stromal cells play a role in self-tolerance by presenting tissue 
antigens to T cells. Yet, immunomodulatory properties of lymphoid tissue stroma, 
particularly toward CD4+ T cells, remain insufficiently characterized by lack of 
tools to target antigens for presentation by stromal cells. A lentiviral vector 
was therefore designed for antigen delivery to MHC class II+ cells of 
nonhematopoietic origin. Following intravenous vector delivery, the transgene 
was detected in lymph node gp38+ stromal cells which were CD45- MHCII+ and 
partly positive for CD86 and CTLA4 or B7-H4. The transgene was not detected in 
classical dendritic cells of lymph nodes or spleen. Transgene-specific CD4+ and 
CD8+ T cell responses were primed and regulatory T cells were also induced but 
effector T cell response did not develop, even after a peptide boost. 
Antigen-specific CD8+ T cells were not cytolytic in vivo. Thus, expressing a 
neo-antigen in MHC-II+ lymph node stroma seems to trigger blunt CD4 T cell 
responses leading to antigen-specific CD8+ T cell anergy. These results open up 
new perspectives to further characterize lymph node stromal cell functional 
properties and to develop gene transfer protocols targeting lymph node stroma to 
induce peripheral tolerance.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2016.168
PMCID: PMC5154481
PMID: 27562586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Sep;32(9):1168-73.

[Elevated expression of B7-H6 in U87 cells-derived glioma stem like cells is 
associated with biological characteristics].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen H(1), Shi Z(1), Gao B(1), Fu F(2), Zhang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, School of Biology and Basic Medical Sciences, 
Soochow University, Suzhou 215000, China.
(2)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, First Affiliated Hospital, Soochow 
University, Suzhou 215000, China. *Corresponding authors, E-mail: 
xueguangzh@126.com.
(3)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, First Affiliated Hospital, Soochow 
University, Jiangsu Provincial Key Laboratory of Stem Cell and Biomedical 
Materials, Soochow University, Suzhou 215000, China. *Corresponding authors, 
E-mail: fufengqing@suda.edu.cn.

Objective To investigate the expression and biological significance of 
costimulatory molecule B7-H6, a member of B7 family, in glioma stem like cells 
(GSLCs). Methods In virtue of the ability of forming neurospheres in vitro , 
GSLCs were isolated from U87 cells by cell sub-cloning. Real-time quantitative 
PCR and flow cytometry were performed to detect the expressions of stem cell 
related markers (c-myc, Sox2, CD133, nestin, and CXCR4), as well as the 
expressions of B7 family molecules. The different doses of adriamycin, 
carboplatin, cisplatin, were used to treat GSLCs for testing their 
chemotherapy-resistance. After the expression of B7-H6 in GSLCs was knockdown by 
siRNA, CCK-8 method was used to detect cell proliferation. Results GSLCs were 
successfully isolated from U87 cells, which formed neurospheres in vitro . The 
expressions of multiple stem cell markers were up-regulated and the GSLCs showed 
enhanced chemo therapy-resistance. B7 family members, B7-H1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and 
B7-H6 were expressed in GSLCs. Compared with primary U87 cells, GSLCs presented 
with a remarkably increased expression of B7-H6 on cell membrane. When B7-H6 was 
silenced by siRNA, cell proliferation was inhibited along with the decrease of 
c-myc expression. Conclusion The expression of B7-H6 is up-regulated in 
U87-derived GSLCs, which is associated with the biological characteristics of 
GSLCs.

PMID: 27609569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Sep;32(9):1260-6.

[Construction of anti-B7-H4-scFv library and screening and identification of 
anti-B7-H4-scFv].

[Article in Chinese]

Shao L(1), Xu C(1), Ji H(1), Mao W(2), Wang Y(3), Liu X(1), Zhu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Scienses, Nanjing Normal University, Jiangsu Key Laboratory 
of Molecular and Biotechnology, Nanjing 210046, China.
(2)College of Life Scienses, Nanjing Normal University, Jiangsu Key Laboratory 
of Molecular and Biotechnology, Nanjing 210046, China. *Corresponding author, 
E-mail: maoweiping@njnu.edu.cn.
(3)College of Life Scienses, Nanjing Normal University, Jiangsu Key Laboratory 
for Supramolecular Medicine Materials and Applications, Nanjing 210046, China.

Objective To construct the ribosome display library of anti-B7-H4 extracellular 
domain, and select the antibody with high specificity. Methods The cDNA of B7-H4 
extracellular domain was amplified from A549 cells by reverse transcription PCR 
(RT-PCR). To express ectodomains of B7-H4, the sequence of B7-H4 gene, which 
encodes the B7-H4 extracellular domains, was inserted into plasmid pET-28a(+). 
The purified recombinant protein of B7-H4 extracellular domain was used to 
immunize BALB/c mice. The total RNA was extracted from the spleen of BALB/c mice 
which had been immunized with B7-H4 recombinant protein. The genes of VH, Vκ and 
VH/Vκ were amplified separately by RT-PCR and splicing by overlap extension PCR 
(SOE-PCR). The gene of VH/ Vκ was ligated into pUM19-T vector and the ligated 
sample was transformed into competent E.coli DH5α. The resulting plasmid was 
isolated and then subjected to sequencing to verify the gene sequence. TNT(R)T7 
Quick for PCR DNA kit was used to translate and screen the anti-B7-H4-scFv in 
vitro from the ribosome display library. Western blotting and an indirect ELISA 
were performed to detect the specificity of anti-B7-H4-scFv. Results The right 
sequences of VH, Vκ and VH/Vκ were acquired, which were 439, 680 and 1098 bp in 
length, respectively. The analysis of specificity demonstrated that the 
anti-B7-H4-scFv screened from the ribosome display library had a high specific 
combining ability with B7-H4. Conclusion The experiment has successively 
constructed the ribosome display library of anti-B7-H4 extracellular domain, and 
selected the anti-B7-H4-scFv which has a high specific binding ability with 
recombinant protein of B7-H4 extracelluar domain.

PMID: 27609584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Oncotarget. 2016 Oct 11;7(41):67196-67211. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.11950.

TGF-β1 promotes colorectal cancer immune escape by elevating B7-H3 and B7-H4 via 
the miR-155/miR-143 axis.

Zhou X(1), Mao Y(2), Zhu J(1), Meng F(1), Chen Q(1), Tao L(3), Li R(3), Fu F(4), 
Liu C(4), Hu Y(5), Wang W(1), Zhang H(1), Hua D(2), Chen W(3), Zhang X(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, The Fourth Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Wuxi, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Suzhou, China.
(4)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Suzhou, China.
(5)Institute of Chinese Medical Sciences, State Key Laboratory of Quality 
Research in Chinese Medicine, University of Macau, Macau, China.

Transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-β1) suppresses T cell function, promoting 
tumor immune escape. Yet, whether the depression of TGF-β1 on T cell function is 
mediated by co-inhibitory molecules B7-H3 and B7-H4 remains largely unclear. 
Here, we demonstrated that TGF-β1 elevated the expression of miR-155 in 
colorectal cancer cells through SMAD3 and SMAD4. The upregulated miR-155 
attenuated miR-143 by inhibiting its direct target, the transcription factor 
CEBPB. Consequently, the direct target genes of miR-143, B7-H3 and B7-H4, were 
augmented in the cytoplasm and membrane of tumor cells. Over-expression of B7-H3 
and B7-H4 in HCT-116 cells induced T cells to secrete TGF-β1 and the 
immunosuppressive cytokines IL-2, IL-6, and IL-17. Restoration of miR-143 
inhibited the growth of HCT-116 xenograft tumors in mice, and also repressed the 
expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in the tumors. Thus, this study reveals the 
mechanism by which TGF-β1 leads to T cell-mediated tumor evasion through an 
increase in B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.11950
PMCID: PMC5341868
PMID: 27626488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


230. Oncol Rep. 2016 Nov;36(5):2625-2632. doi: 10.3892/or.2016.5084. Epub 2016
Sep  12.

Unstable B7-H4 cell surface expression and T-cell redirection as a means of 
cancer therapy.

Iizuka A(1), Kondou R(1), Nonomura C(1), Ashizawa T(1), Ohshima K(2), Kusuhara 
M(3), Isaka M(4), Ohde Y(4), Yamaguchi K(5), Akiyama Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunotherapy, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, 
Shizuoka 411-8777, Japan.
(2)Division of Medical Genetics, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, 
Shizuoka 411-8777, Japan.
(3)Division of Regional Resources, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, 
Shizuoka 411-8777, Japan.
(4)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Nagaizumi-cho, 
Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8777, Japan.
(5)Office of the President, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Nagaizumi-cho, 
Sunto-gun, Shizuoka 411-8777, Japan.

Tumor immune regulation has been demonstrated in clinical studies using 
antibodies targeted to the B7/CD28 family. B7 homolog 4 (B7-H4) negatively 
regulates immune responses and is overexpressed in many types of human cancer, 
indicating that B7-H4 may be a potential target of cancer therapy. B7-H4 
expression is affected by the microenvironment, and its presence has been 
reported in cancer tissues and immune cells. We found an upregulation of B7-H4 
expression using comprehensive whole exome sequencing and gene expression 
profiling (project HOPE) launched by the Shizuoka Cancer Center based on tumor 
tissue samples from 1,058 cancer patients. We were successful in producing 
monoclonal antibodies for B7-H4 and demonstrated B7-H4 dimerization and rapid 
cell surface disappearance by antibody cross-linking in breast cancer cells, 
even under typical conditions. These observations may explain why 
antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) did not function in vivo on the 
B7-H4-expressing tumor cells. Unstable cell surface antigens are not suitable as 
targets for ADCC, and we therefore performed an indirect ADCC-redirecting T-cell 
cytotoxicity assay to study B7-H4 using polyclonal anti-mouse IgG 
antibody-mediated linking. Our results showed the possibility of targeting the 
B7-H4 molecule as a means of treating cancer.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2016.5084
PMID: 27632942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Oncotarget. 2016 Nov 1;7(44):72242-72249. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.12665.

Prognostic significance of B7-H4 expression in matched primary pancreatic cancer 
and liver metastases.

Qian Y(1), Sang Y(1), Wang FX(2), Hong B(3), Wang Q(1), Zhou X(4), Weng T(5), Wu 
Z(5), Zheng M(5), Zhang H(6), Yao H(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, China.
(2)Department of Bioengineering, Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer 
Science, The University of Texas at Dallas, Texas 75080, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, China.
(4)Department of Gynecology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious 
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Hangzhou 310003, China.
(6)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China.

Liver metastasis development in pancreatic cancer patients is common and confers 
a poor prognosis. Clinical relevance of biomarker analysis in metastatic tissue 
is necessary. B7-H4 has an inhibitory effect on T cell mediated response and may 
be involved in tumor development. Although B7-H4 expression has been detected in 
pancreatic cancer, its expression in liver metastases from pancreatic cancer is 
still unknown. In this study, overall 43 pancreatic cancer liver metastases 
(with matched primaries in 15/43 cases) and 57 pancreatic cancer cases without 
liver metastases or other distant metastases were analyzed for their expression 
of B7-H4 by immunohistochemistry. Survival curves and log-rank tests were used 
to test the association of B7-H4 expression with survival. B7-H4 was highly 
expressed in 28 (65.1%) of the 43 liver metastases and 9 (60.0%) of the 15 
matched primary tumors. The expression of B7-H4 in liver metastases was 
significantly higher than in the matched primary tumors (p < 0.05). Patients 
with high B7-H4 expression in their primary pancreatic cancer had higher risk of 
developing liver metastases (p < 0.05). In univariate analysis, B7-H4 expression 
was significantly associated with the risk of death (p < 0.05). And the 
multivariate analysis identified that B7-H4 was an independent prognostic 
indicator (p < 0.05). Our results revealed B7-H4 to be associated with poor 
prognosis in patients with pancreatic cancer liver metastasis. B7-H4 may promote 
pancreatic cancer metastasis and was promising to be a potential prognostic 
indicator of pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.12665
PMCID: PMC5342158
PMID: 27750217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest related to the publication of this manuscript.


232. Oncotarget. 2016 Nov 22;7(47):77237-77243. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.12628.

Assessment of combined expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 as prognostic marker in 
esophageal cancer patients.

Chen L(1)(2)(3), Xie Q(1)(2)(3), Wang Z(1)(2)(4), Shi L(1)(2)(5)(3), Wu 
C(1)(2)(5)(3), Jiang J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, The Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou, Jiangsu 213003, China.
(2)Research Center for Cancer Immunotherapy Technology of Jiangsu Province, The 
Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Changzhou, Jiangsu 213003, 
China.
(3)Institute of Cell Therapy, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Changzhou, Jiangsu 213003, China.
(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Changzhou, Jiangsu 213003, China.
(5)Department of Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Changzhou, Jiangsu 213003, China.

The co-stimulatory ligands of B7-family have been confirmed to play an important 
role in negatively regulating the T-cell mediated anti-tumor immunity. In 
addition, these inhibitory molecules are also aberrantly expressed on various 
human cancers tissues, and significantly associated with cancer progression and 
patients' poor prognoses. We have previously reported that B7-H3 and B7-H4 
ligands are highly expressed in human esophageal cancer tissues. Herein, we 
tried to further analyze the value of their combined expression on prognostic 
prediction for esophageal cancer patients. We found that the combined expression 
of both B7-H3 and B7-H4 could be used as a valuable risk factor for predicting 
the prognosis of esophageal cancer patients (P=0.003). Moreover the status of 
these patients with high expression of both B7-H3 and B7-H4, was positively and 
significantly associated with the tumor invasion depth (P=0.0414) and TNM stage 
(P=0.0414). The Cox multivariate proportional hazards regression analysis 
revealed that the tumor size (P=0.007), the TNM stage (P=0.024) and the status 
of both B7-H3 and B7-H4 high expression (P=0.011), could be used as an 
independent risk factor for predicting patients' postoperative prognosis, 
respectively. In conclusion, our data indicated that the combined application of 
B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression can be effectively used as a prognostic marker in 
esophageal cancer patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.12628
PMCID: PMC5363583
PMID: 27764786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests to this paper.


233. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2016 Oct;24(5):1539-1546. doi: 
10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2016.05.046.

[Expression and Subcellular Distribution of Costimulatory Molecules B7-H1,B7-H3 
and B7-H4 in Human Hematologic Malignancy Cell Lines].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang W(1), Wang J(1), Wang YF(1), Zhu MX(1), Wan WL(1), Li HS(1), Wu FF(1), Yan 
XX(1), Ke XY(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing 100191, 
China.
(2)Department of Hematology, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing 100191, 
China. E-mail: xykbysy@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression and subcellular distribution of 
costimulatory molecules B7-H1, B7-H3 and B7-H4 in human hematologic malignancy 
cell lines.
METHODS: The expression and subcellular distribution of B7-H1, B7-H3 and B7-H4 
in 13 human hematologic malignancy cell lines were determined by RT-PCR, qPCR, 
Western blot and flow cytometry, the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PB MNC) 
of 12 volunteers were used as control.
RESULTS: The mRNA of B7-H1, B7-H3 and B7-H4 was widely expressed in PB MNC and 
hematologic malignancy cell lines, with a lower level of B7-H4. The mRNA 
expression of 3 molecules was highest in Maver, Z138, and HL-60, respectively, 
while among them the B7-H3 and B7-H4 had no expression in CZ1. The nuclear and 
cytoplasmic protein of 3 costimulatory molecules abnormally overexpressed only 
in hematologic malignancy cell lines, with the highest level in U937, Z138, and 
Raji, respectively, while the B7-H3 and B7-H4 had no expression in CZ1. There 
were differences among mRNA expression, nuclear and cytoplasmic protein 
expression of 3 molecules in cell lines derived from the same type of tumor, but 
the differences of expression in mRNA and protein levels were not exactly the 
same. The B7-H3 expression abundance in membrane localization was higher in 
U937, Maver and Z138, while the membrane protein of B7-H1 and B7-H4 had no or 
low expression in 13 cell lines.
CONCLUSION: The mRNA expression of costimulatory molecules B7-H1, B7-H3 and 
B7-H4 can be widely detected. The protein level of 3 costimulatory molecules 
abnormally overexpressed only in hematologic malignancy cell lines, moreover the 
subcellular localizations mostly was found in nucleus and cytoplasm, while the 
membrane protein expresses in low level or had no expression. There are 
differences among the expression of 3 molecules in cell lines derived from the 
same type of tumor.

DOI: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2016.05.046
PMID: 27784389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Med Sci Monit. 2016 Nov 7;22:4233-4237. doi: 10.12659/msm.897781.

B7-H4 is Predictive of Poor Prognosis in Patients with Gastric Cancer.

Cui Y(1), Li Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The First People's Hospital of Shangqiu, 
Shangqiu, Henan, China (mainland).

BACKGROUND Recently, some studies were performed to evaluate the relevance of 
B7-H4 and gastric cancer (GC) prognosis. However, the results remained 
controversial. Therefore, we performed the present meta-analysis. MATERIAL AND 
METHODS We performed a systematic search in PubMed and Web of Science databases. 
All data were extracted and reviewed from each eligible study independently by 2 
investigators. The strength of association between B7-H4 and GC prognosis was 
assessed by computing odds ratio (OR) with its corresponding 95% confidence 
interval (CI). RESULTS Six studies that evaluated the association between B7-H4 
and GC prognosis were included. The results showed a statistically significant 
association of B7-H4 and GC prognosis (OR=1.63, 95%CI=1.30-2.03). Furthermore, 
we conducted subgroup analysis based on source of B7-H4; the results from blood 
(OR=1.71; 95%CI, 1.09-2.68) and tissue (OR=1.60; 95%CI, 1.03-2.07) indicated 
B7-H4 was significantly associated with poor prognosis. CONCLUSIONS This 
meta-analysis suggests that GC patients with high B7-H4 have poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.12659/msm.897781
PMCID: PMC5103837
PMID: 27820598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


235. Tumour Biol. 2016 Nov 9. doi: 10.1007/s13277-016-5484-1. Online ahead of
print.

Retraction Note to: Prognostic investigations of B7-H1 and B7-H4 expression 
levels as independent predictor markers of renal cell carcinoma.

Safaei HR(1), Rostamzadeh A(2), Rahmani O(3), Mohammadi M(4), Ghaderi O(5), 
Yahaghi H(6), Ahmadi K(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Nephrology, AJA University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Anatomical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, Shahrekord University 
of Medical Sciences, Shahrekord, Iran.
(3)Department of Pathology, Be'sat Hospital, AJA University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Lorestan 
University of Medical Sciences, Khorramabad, Iran.
(5)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Department of Molecular Biology, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(7)Department of Emergency Medicine, Alborz University of Medical Sciences, 
Karaj, Iran. ahmadik@mums.ac.ir.

Retraction of
    Tumour Biol. 2016 Jun;37(6):7583-7.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-016-5484-1
PMID: 27826944


236. Mol Med Rep. 2016 Dec;14(6):5015-5024. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5887. Epub 2016
Oct  25.

Aberrant expression of B7‑H4 may contribute to the development of hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Yuan L(1), Dong L(1), Yu G(2), Fan W(1), Zhang L(1), Wang P(1), Hu X(3), Zhao 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Binzhou Affiliated Hospital of Binzhou Medical 
University, Binzhou, Shandong 256603, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Yu Huang Ding Hospital, Yantai, Shandong 264000, 
P.R. China.
(3)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, Shandong 
264003, P.R. China.

In order to determine the effect of B7‑H4 on the development of human 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the expression levels of B7‑H4 were evaluated 
using reverse transcription‑polymerase chain reaction and flow cytometry in 
HL‑7702 and Huh7 cells. B7‑H4 protein expression levels were analyzed using 
western blotting and immunohistochemistry in HCC tissues collected from patients 
and from a mouse tumor model. Soluble B7‑H4 (sB7‑H4), interferon‑γ (IFN‑γ), and 
interleukin‑4 (IL‑4) in blood serum were assessed using ELISA in patients with 
HCC and mice injected with tumor cells. B7‑H4 was expressed in HCC cell lines, 
mouse tumor tissues and HCC patient tissues. However, B7‑H4 was not detected in 
HL‑7702 cells or normal human liver tissues. The expression level of B7‑H4 was 
positively correlated with tumor‑node‑metastasis (TNM) stage, lymph node 
metastasis, and differentiation degree in patients with HCC. sB7‑H4 levels in 
blood serum samples collected from patients with HCC and tumorigenic mice were 
higher compared with healthy controls. Expression levels of IFN‑γ were reduced, 
and IL‑4 levels were increased in blood serum samples of patients with HCC and 
tumorigenic mice compared with healthy controls. sB7‑H4 expression levels were 
negatively correlated with IFN‑γ levels, and with the ratio of IFN‑γ to IL‑4. 
Additionally, sB7‑H4 was positively correlated with IL‑4 levels in mouse tumor 
tissues, serum samples obtained from tumorigenic mice and human HCC patients. 
Notably, the levels of sB7‑H4 and IL‑4 were positively correlated and IFN‑γ was 
negatively correlated with the TNM stage of patients with HCC. In addition, 
sB7‑H4 and IL‑4 expression levels increased and levels of IFN‑γ and the ratio of 
IFN‑γ/IL‑4 decreased as a function of time post tumor implantation in the mouse 
model. The present study determined that aberrant expression of B7‑H4 
contributed to HCC development. B7‑H4 may be a potential target for therapy and 
diagnosis of HCC.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2016.5887
PMCID: PMC5355751
PMID: 27840912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2016 Nov;20(21):4466-4473.

The expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in human gallbladder carcinoma and their 
clinical implications.

Liu CL(1), Zang XX, Huang H, Zhang H, Wang C, Kong YL, Zhang HY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Air Force General Hospital of PLA, 
Beijing, China. liuchengli8866@sina.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 and their clinical 
implications in human gallbladder carcinoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in the 252 samples (126 
cases of chronic cholecystitis and 126 cases of gallbladder cancer) was detected 
by the streptavidin-peroxidase immunohistochemical method, and their 
associations with tumor classification, clinical grade, and recurrence were 
assessed.
RESULTS: In chronic cholecystitis tissue, B7-H3 and B7-H4 were not detected. In 
126 cases of gallbladder carcinoma, the positive rates of B7-H3 and B7-H4 
expression were 66.67% and 69.05% respectively (p < 0.05). The positive rate of 
B7-H3 in the primary-onset group was 53.57%, and that in recurrence group was 
92.86% (p < 0.05). The positive rate of B7-H4 in the primary-onset group was 
85.19%, and that in recurrence group was 40.00% (p < 0.05). Expression of B7-H3 
was consistent with B7-H4 expression in gallbladder carcinoma.
CONCLUSIONS: B7-H3 and B7-H4 were up-regulated in gallbladder cancer; the high 
expression of B7-H3 may contribute to the early diagnosis of gallbladder 
carcinoma and the assessment of postoperative survival and recurrence. B7-H4 may 
play an important role in the incidence of gallbladder cancer. B7-H3 and B7-H4 
may play a synergetic role in gallbladder carcinoma. Combined tests were 
available for the diagnosis, degree assessment and prognosis of gallbladder 
carcinoma, which may be a new target for molecular targeted therapy of 
gallbladder carcinoma.

PMID: 27874953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Oncotarget. 2017 Mar 21;8(12):18861-18871. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.14475.

B7-H4 promotes tumor growth and metastatic progression in lung cancer by 
impacting cell proliferation and survival.

Zhang X(1)(2), Cai L(2), Zhang G(3), Shen Y(3), Huang J(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Suzhou 215006, China.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan 
University (WuXi No.4 People's Hospital), Wuxi 214000, China.
(3)Clinical Immunology Laboratory of Jiangsu Province, Suzhou 215006, China.

Aberrant expression of B7-H4 occurs across a broad spectrum of human cancers. 
The aim of this study was to investigate the key role of B7-H4 during 
tumorigenesis and metastasis of human lung cancer. Our data showed that the 
shRNA-mediated disruption of B7-H4 markedly inhibited tumor cell proliferation, 
invasion and migration, increased cell apoptosis and arrested cell cycle at 
G0/G1. These changes were accompanied by a marked increase in Bax and 
caspase-3/caspase-8, but a decrease in Bcl-2, cyclinD1 and activation of AKT. In 
addition, our shRNA-mediated disruption of B7-H4 led to a marked decrease in 
tumor growth in the immune-compromised mice. Importantly, B7-H4 was expressed in 
53.33% of lung carcinomas from our patient cohort (n = 90), but not in any of 
adjacent non-cancerous tissues, according to our IHC analyses. In particular, 
B7-H4 expression appeared to be associated with lymph node metastasis (P = 
0.008) and TNM stage (P = 0.012). Taken together, our study demonstrates a 
strong promoting role of B7-H4 in lung tumor growth, progression and metastasis, 
and supports its potential as a therapeutic target for the treatment of the 
disease.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.14475
PMCID: PMC5386653
PMID: 28061481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest related to the publication of this work.


239. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2016 Nov-Dec;50(6):1007-1013. doi:
10.7868/S0026898416060240.

[B7-H4-mediated immunoresistance is supressed by PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway 
inhibitors].

[Article in Russian]

Zeng S(1), Song H(1), Chen Y(1), Xie W(2), Zhang L(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Soochow University, Suzhou, 215123 People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Immunology, School of Basic Medicine and Life Sciences, Medical 
College of Soochow University, Suzhou, 215123 People's Republic of China.
(3)zliang@suda.edu.cn.

B7-H4 plays an important role in tumor immune evasion. In previous studies we 
have found that B7-H4 can translocate to the nucleus, and the exposure to PI3K 
inhibitor Ly294002 affects B7-H4 subcellular distribution. In this study we 
report the role of PI3K/Akt pathway in the B7-H4 subcellular distribution and 
the effect of PI3K/Akt inhibitors on B7-H4-mediated immunoresistance. The 
involvement of PI3K/Akt pathway in B7-H4 subcellular distribution was evident in 
experiments with wortmannin, while MDM2 inhibitor nutlin-3 and the mTOR 
inhibitor rapamycin were used to dissect the signaling downstream of Akt. 
Wortmannin and rapamycin demonstrated similar effects on B7-H4 subcellular 
distribution. Exposure to any of these inhibitors decreased levels of membrane 
B7-H4 while at the same time inducing its nuclear accumulation, while exposure 
to nutlin-3 had no effect on B7-H4 subcellular distribution. In the T cell 
proliferation assay, both wortmannin and rapamycin effectively inhibited B7-H4 
WT/293 cells-mediated T cell proliferation while exerting no effect on Mock/293 
cells. PI3K/Akt/mTOR plays a role in B7-H4 subcellular distribution, while MDM2 
does not take part in it. Moreover, we show that wortmannin and rapamycin 
inhibit B7-H4-mediated tumor immunoresistance through regulating B7-H4 
subcellular distribution. Taken together, these results suggest that 
PI3K/Akt/mTOR inhibitors might be used for adjuvant therapy aimed at inhibition 
of immune evasion.

DOI: 10.7868/S0026898416060240
PMID: 28064317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2017 Apr;66(4):491-502. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-016-1950-2. Epub 2017 Jan 10.

Synergistic effects of host B7-H4 deficiency and gemcitabine treatment on tumor 
regression and anti-tumor T cell immunity in a mouse model.

Leung J(1)(2), St-Onge P(1)(3), Stagg J(4), Suh WK(5)(6)(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Institut de recherches cliniques de Montréal (IRCM), 110 avenue des Pins 
Ouest, Montréal, QC, H2W 1R7, Canada.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, Montréal, QC, 
Canada.
(3)Département de Médecine (Programmes de Biologie Moléculaire), Université de 
Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada.
(4)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal, 
Institut du Cancer de Montréal, Faculté de Pharmacie, Université de Montréal, 
Québec, Canada.
(5)Institut de recherches cliniques de Montréal (IRCM), 110 avenue des Pins 
Ouest, Montréal, QC, H2W 1R7, Canada. woong-kyung.suh@ircm.qc.ca.
(6)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, McGill University, Montréal, QC, 
Canada. woong-kyung.suh@ircm.qc.ca.
(7)Département de Médecine (Programmes de Biologie Moléculaire), Université de 
Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada. woong-kyung.suh@ircm.qc.ca.
(8)Département de Médecine, Université de Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada. 
woong-kyung.suh@ircm.qc.ca.
(9)Département de Microbiologie, Infectiologie, et Immunologie, Université de 
Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada. woong-kyung.suh@ircm.qc.ca.

B7-H4 (B7x/B7S1), a B7 family inhibitor of T cell activity, is expressed in 
multiple human cancers and correlates with decreased infiltrating lymphocytes 
and poor prognosis. In murine models, tumor-expressed B7-H4 enhances tumor 
growth and reduces T cell immunity, and blockade of tumor-B7-H4 rescues T cell 
activity and lowers tumor burden. This implicates B7-H4 as a target for cancer 
immunotherapy, yet limits the efficacy of B7-H4 blockade exclusively to patients 
with B7-H4+ tumors. Given the expression of B7-H4 on host immune cells, we have 
previously shown that BALB/c mice lacking host B7-H4 have enhanced anti-tumor 
profiles, yet similar 4T1 tumor growth relative to control. Given that T 
cell-mediated immunotherapies work best for tumors presenting tumor-associated 
neoantigens, we further investigated the function of host B7-H4 in the growth of 
a more immunogenic derivative, 4T1-12B, which is known to elicit strong 
anti-tumor CD8 T cell responses due to expression of a surrogate tumor-specific 
antigen, firefly luciferase. Notably, B7-H4 knockout hosts not only mounted 
greater tumor-associated anti-tumor T cell responses, but also displayed reduced 
tumors. Additionally, B7-H4-deficiency synergized with gemcitabine to further 
inhibit tumor growth, often leading to tumor eradication and the generation of 
protective T cell immunity. These findings imply that inhibition of host B7-H4 
can enhance anti-tumor T cell immunity in immunogenic cancers, and can be 
combined with other anti-cancer therapies to further reduce tumor burden 
regardless of tumor-B7-H4 positivity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-016-1950-2
PMID: 28074226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Clin Respir J. 2018 Mar;12(3):986-990. doi: 10.1111/crj.12615. Epub 2017 Feb
13.

Diagnostic value of soluble B7-H4 and carcinoembryonic antigen in distinguishing 
malignant from benign pleural effusion.

Jing X(1)(2), Wei F(3), Li J(4), Dai L(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Jia L(1)(2), Wang 
H(1)(2), An L(1)(2), Yang Y(1)(2), Zhang G(1)(2), Cheng Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, 450052, People's Republic of China.
(2)Institute of Clinical Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, 450052, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, 450052, People's Republic of China.
(4)Pingdingshan Industrial College of Technology, Institute of international 
communication, Pingdingshan, 467000, People's Republic of China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the diagnostic value of joint detection of soluble B7-H4 
(sB7-H4) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in identifying malignant pleural 
effusion (MPE) from benign pleural effusion (BPE).
METHODS: A total of 97 patients with pleural effusion specimens were enrolled 
from The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University between June 2014 and 
December 2015. All cases were categorized into malignant pleural effusion group 
(n = 55) and benign pleural effusion group (n = 42) according to etiologies. 
Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was applied to examine the levels of sB7-H4 in 
pleural effusion and meanwhile CEA concentrations were detected by 
electro-chemiluminescence immunoassays. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) 
curve was established to assess the diagnostic value of sB7-H4 and CEA in 
pleural effusion. The correlation between sB7-H4 and CEA levels was analyzed by 
Pearson's product-moment.
RESULTS: The concentrations of sB7-H4 and CEA in MPE exhibited obviously higher 
than those of BPE ([60.08 ± 35.04] vs. [27.26 ± 9.55] ng/ml, P = .000; 
[41.49 ± 37.16] vs. [2.41 ± 0.94] ng/ml, P = .000). The AUC area under ROC curve 
of sB7-H4 and CEA was 0.884 and 0.954, respectively. Two cutoff values by ROC 
curve analysis of sB7-H4 36.5 ng/ml and CEA 4.18 ng/ml were obtained, with a 
corresponding sensitivity (81.82%, 87.28%), specificity (90.48%, 95.24%), 
accuracy (85.57%, 90.72%), positive predictive value (PPV) (91.84%, 96.0%), 
negative predictive value (NPV) (79.17%, 85.11%), positive likelihood ratio 
(PLR) (8.614, 18.327), and negative likelihood ratio (NLR) (0.201, 0.134). When 
sB7-H4 and CEA were combined to detect pleural effusion, it obtained a higher 
sensitivity 90.91% and specificity 97.62%. Furthermore, correlation analysis 
result showed that the level of sB7-H4 was correlated with CEA level (r = .770, 
P = .000).
CONCLUSIONS: sB7-H4 was a potentially valuable tumor marker in the 
differentiation between BPE and MPE. The combined detection of sB7-H4 and CEA 
could improve the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity for MPE.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/crj.12615
PMID: 28127951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Clin Breast Cancer. 2017 Jul;17(4):298-306.e7. doi:
10.1016/j.clbc.2017.01.007.  Epub 2017 Jan 27.

Expression Profiling of Clinical Specimens Supports the Existence of Neural 
Progenitor-Like Stem Cells in Basal Breast Cancers.

Panaccione A(1), Guo Y(2), Yarbrough WG(3), Ivanov SV(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Otolaryngology, Yale School of Medicine, 
New Haven, CT.
(2)Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, 
Nashville, TN.
(3)Department of Surgery, Section of Otolaryngology, Yale School of Medicine, 
New Haven, CT; Head and Neck Disease Center, Smilow Cancer Hospital, New Haven, 
CT; Molecular Virology Program, Yale Cancer Center, New Haven, CT.
(4)Department of Surgery, Section of Otolaryngology, Yale School of Medicine, 
New Haven, CT. Electronic address: sergey.ivanov@yale.edu.

BACKGROUND: We previously characterized in salivary adenoid cystic carcinoma 
(ACC) a novel population of cancer stem cells (CSCs) marked by coexpression of 2 
stemness genes, sex-determining region Y (SRY)-related HMG box-containing factor 
10 (SOX10) and CD133. We also reported that in ACC and basal-like breast 
carcinoma (BBC), a triple-negative breast cancer subtype, expression of SOX10 
similarly demarcates a highly conserved gene signature enriched with neural stem 
cell genes. On the basis of these findings, we hypothesized that BBC might be 
likewise driven by SOX10-positive (SOX10+)/CD133+ cells with neural stem cell 
properties.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: To validate our hypothesis on clinical data, we used a 
novel approach to meta-analysis that merges gene expression data from 
independent breast cancer studies and ranks genes according to statistical 
significance of their coexpression with the gene of interest. Genes that showed 
strong association with CD133/PROM1 as well as SOX10 were validated across 
different platforms and data sets and analyzed for enrichment with genes 
involved in neurogenesis.
RESULTS: We identified in clinical breast cancer data sets a highly conserved 
SOX10/PROM1 gene signature that contains neural stem cell markers common for 
Schwann cells, ACC, BBC, and melanoma. Identification of tripartite 
motif-containing 2 (TRIM2), TRIM29, MPZL2, potassium calcium-activated channel 
subfamily N member 4 (KCNN4), and V-set domain containing T cell activation 
inhibitor 1 (VTCN1)/B7 homolog 4 (B7H4) within this signature provides insight 
into molecular mechanisms of CSC maintenance.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that BBC is driven by SOX10+/CD133+ cells that 
express neural stem cell-specific markers and share molecular similarities with 
CSCs of neural crest origin. Our study provides clinically relevant information 
on possible drivers of these cells that might facilitate development of 
CSC-targeting therapies against this cancer distinguished with poor prognosis 
and resistance to conventional therapies.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2017.01.007
PMCID: PMC5482752
PMID: 28216417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST DECLARATION Authors declare 
no conflict of interests.


243. Int J Rheum Dis. 2017 Apr;20(4):474-480. doi: 10.1111/1756-185X.13041. Epub
2017  Feb 20.

B7-H4 deficiency in salivary gland of patients with primary Sjögren's syndrome 
impairs the regulatory effect on T cells.

Li X(1), Yu D(1)(2), Yu N(1), Wang X(1), Li X(1), Harris DCH(3), Wang Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Affiliated Anhui Provincial 
Hospital, Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui.
(2)Department of Nephrology, Renmin Hospital of Three Gorges University, 
Yichang, China.
(3)Centre for Transplantation and Renal Research, Westmead Hospital, University 
of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

AIM: Our previous study confirmed the defect of B7-H4 expression in peripheral 
blood and salivary glands of patients with primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS). The 
aim of this study was to analyze the effect of the deficit expression of B7-H4 
on CD4+ T cells.
METHODS: CD4+ T cells were purified by magnetic-activated cell sorting MACS. The 
proliferation and cytokine production of CD4+ T cells co-cultured with purified 
salivary gland epithelial cells (SGECs) from pSS or non-SS sicca syndrome were 
detected.
RESULTS: By co-culturing the gland cells with CD4+ T cells, we found the 
proliferation of CD4+ T cells was significantly suppressed. The effect was 
weaker when SGECs from pSS patients were used compared to that from non-pSS 
sicca syndrome controls. Simultaneously, the productions of cytokines 
interleukin (IL)-5, IL-13, IL-17A, IL-6 in supernatant were reduced and also 
SGECs from pSS patients decreased them less than that from non-SS controls.
CONCLUSIONS: The decrease of B7-H4 expression in salivary glands of SS patients 
contributes to the defect of negatively regulating the inflammation caused by 
CD4+ T cells, thereby providing new insights into the role of B7-H4 in the 
inflammatory process of salivary glands in SS.

© 2017 Asia Pacific League of Associations for Rheumatology and John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1756-185X.13041
PMID: 28217953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2017 Jun;66(6):717-729. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-017-1961-7. Epub 2017 Feb 28.

Novel B7-H4-mediated crosstalk between human non-Hodgkin lymphoma cells and 
tumor-associated macrophages leads to immune evasion via secretion of IL-6 and 
IL-10.

Che F(1)(2)(3), Heng X(4), Zhang H(5), Su Q(1), Zhang B(6), Chen Y(6), Zhang 
Z(6), Du Y(7), Wang L(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Central Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, Linyi, 
Shandong, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shandong Provincial Hospital, Shandong University, 
44 Wenhua West Road, Jinan, Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, Linyi, 
Shandong, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, 
Linyi, Shandong, China.
(5)Department of Hematology, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, No. 
27 Jiefang Road, Lanshan District, Linyi, Shandong, China.
(6)Hematology Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, Linyi, 
Shandong, China.
(7)Department of Neurology, Shandong Provincial Hospital, Shandong University, 
44 Wenhua West Road, Jinan, Shandong, China. duyf69@163.com.
(8)Department of Hematology, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, No. 
27 Jiefang Road, Lanshan District, Linyi, Shandong, China. wanglj730@163.com.
(9)Hematology Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, Linyi, 
Shandong, China. wanglj730@163.com.

Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) is an incurable lymphoproliferative cancer, and 
patients with NHL have a poor prognosis. The present study explored the 
regulatory mechanism of expression and possible roles of the immunosuppressive 
B7-H4 molecule in human NHL. For functional studies, NHL-reactive T cell lines 
were generated via the isolation of allogeneic CD3+ T cells from healthy donors 
and repeated in vitro stimulation with irradiated NHL cells isolated from 
patients. B7-H4 was found to be distributed in NHL cells and tissues, and its 
surface protein expression levels were further upregulated by the incubation of 
NHL cells with interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, or interferon-γ. Additionally, the 
supernatants of tumor-associated macrophages (tMφs) upregulated B7-H4 surface 
expression by producing IL-6 and IL-10. B7-H4 expressed in NHL cells inhibited 
the cytotoxic activity of NHL-reactive T cells. Conversely, the inhibition of 
B7-H4 in NHL cells promoted T cell immunity and sensitized NHL cells to 
cytolysis. Furthermore, tMφs induced B7-H4 promoted NHL cell evasion of the T 
cell immune response. In conclusion, this study shows that NHL-expressed B7-H4 
is an important immunosuppressive factor that inhibits host anti-tumor immunity 
to NHL. Targeting tumor-expressed B7-H4 may thus provide a new treatment 
strategy for NHL patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-017-1961-7
PMID: 28246881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Immunol Rev. 2017 Mar;276(1):40-51. doi: 10.1111/imr.12530.

Potential targeting of B7-H4 for the treatment of cancer.

Podojil JR(1), Miller SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.

Observations noting the presence of white blood cell infiltrates within tumors 
date back more than a century, however the cellular and molecular mechanisms 
regulating tumor immunity continue to be elucidated. The recent successful use 
of monoclonal antibodies to block immune regulatory pathways to enhance 
tumor-specific immune responses for the treatment of cancer has encouraged the 
identification of additional immune regulatory receptor/ligand pathways. Over 
the past several years, a growing body of data has identified B7-H4 
(VTCN1/B7x/B7S1) as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of cancer. 
The potential clinical significance of B7-H4 is supported by the high levels of 
B7-H4 expression found in numerous tumor tissues and correlation of the level of 
expression on tumor cells with adverse clinical and pathologic features, 
including tumor aggressiveness. The biological activity of B7-H4 has been 
associated with decreased inflammatory CD4+ T-cell responses and a correlation 
between B7-H4-expressing tumor-associated macrophages and FoxP3+ regulatory T 
cells (Tregs) within the tumor microenvironment. Since B7-H4 is expressed on 
tumor cells and tumor-associated macrophages in various cancer types, 
therapeutic blockade of B7-H4 could favorably alter the tumor microenvironment 
allowing for antigen-specific clearance tumor cells. The present review 
highlights the therapeutic potential of targeting B7-H4.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imr.12530
PMCID: PMC5630270
PMID: 28258701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors do not have 
any conflicts of interest regarding this work.


246. Oncol Rep. 2017 Apr;37(4):2308-2316. doi: 10.3892/or.2017.5481. Epub 2017
Mar 1.

Roles of immune inhibitory molecule B7-H4 in cervical cancer.

Han S(1), Li Y(1), Zhang J(1), Liu L(1), Chen Q(1), Qian Q(1), Li S(1), Zhang 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong 250012, P.R. China.

Recent studies have reported that the immune-regulatory protein B7-H4 is highly 
expressed in various types of cancer, but little is known concerning its roles 
in cervical cancer. In the present study, we investigated the expression of 
B7-H4 in human tissues and serum samples, and explored the effects of B7-H4 on 
proliferation, apoptosis, migration and invasion of cervical cancer cell lines, 
including SiHa and HeLa. We found that B7-H4 was mainly located in the cytoplasm 
of cervical cancer cells as determined by immunofluorescence staining. Serum 
B7-H4 (sB7-H4) was overexpressed in patients with cervical intraepithelial 
neoplasia (CIN) and cervical cancer, and the area under the ROC curve (AUC) was 
0.955. There was no statistical significance between B7-H4 expression and 
clinicopathological factors in cervical cancer tissue samples. B7-H4 promoted 
the proliferation of SiHa and HeLa cells, and protected them from apoptosis, 
which was related to the upregulation of E7, phosphorylated Rb (pRb), E2F, P16, 
P21, Bcl-2 and the downregulation of Rb, cleaved PARP and cleaved caspase-3 as 
determined by western blotting. In addition, B7-H4 increased the ability of cell 
migration and invasion by targeting angiogenic factors, matrix 
metalloproteinase (MMP)-2, MMP-9 and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) 
as determined by RT-PCR. Our findings revealed that B7-H4 has the potential to 
be a useful prognostic marker. In addition, B7-H4 plays important roles in 
proliferation, apoptosis, migration and invasion, indicating that B7-H4 can 
serve as a new therapeutic target for cervical cancer.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2017.5481
PMID: 28260085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Jun 15;23(12):2934-2941. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2440. Epub 2017 Mar 21.

Molecular Pathways: Evaluating the Potential for B7-H4 as an Immunoregulatory 
Target.

MacGregor HL(1)(2), Ohashi PS(3)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Campbell Family Institute for Breast Cancer Research, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. pohashi@uhnres.utoronto.ca.
(4)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

With the clinical success of CTLA-4 and PD-1 blockade in treating malignancies, 
there is tremendous interest in finding new ways to augment antitumor responses 
by targeting other inhibitory molecules. In this review, we describe one such 
molecule. B7-H4, a member of the B7 family of immunoregulatory proteins, 
inhibits T cell proliferation and cytokine production through ligation of an 
unknown receptor expressed by activated T cells. Notably, B7-H4 protein 
expression is observed in a high proportion of patients' tumors across a wide 
variety of malignancies. This high expression by tumors in combination with its 
low or absent protein expression in normal tissues makes B7-H4 an attractive 
immunotherapeutic target. Preclinical investigation into B7-H4-specific chimeric 
antigen receptor (CAR) T cells, antibody-mediated blockade of B7-H4, and 
anti-B7-H4 drug conjugates has shown antitumor efficacy in mouse models. The 
first clinical trials have been completed to assess the safety and efficacy of a 
B7-H4 fusion protein in ameliorating rheumatoid arthritis. Clin Cancer Res; 
23(12); 2934-41. ©2017 AACR.

©2017 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2440
PMID: 28325750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Sci Rep. 2017 Mar 24;7:44485. doi: 10.1038/srep44485.

Human Immunodeficiency Virus Type-1 Myeloid Derived Suppressor Cells Inhibit 
Cytomegalovirus Inflammation through Interleukin-27 and B7-H4.

Garg A(1), Trout R(1), Spector SA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of 
California San Diego, La Jolla, California 92093-0672, USA.
(2)Rady Children's Hospital, San Diego, California, 92123, USA.

HIV/CMV co-infected persons despite prolonged viral suppression often experience 
persistent immune activation, have an increased frequency of myeloid derived 
suppressor cells (MDSC) and are at increased risk for cardiovascular disease. We 
examined how HIV MDSC control CD4+ T cell IFNγ response to a CMVpp65 peptide 
pool (CMVpp65). We show that HIV/CMV co-infected persons with virologic 
suppression and recovered CD4+ T cells compared to HIV(-)/CMV(+) controls 
exhibit an increase in CD4+CX3CR1+IFNγ+ cells in response to CMVpp65; MDSC 
depletion further augmented CD4+CX3CR1+IFNγ+ cells and IFNγ production. IL-2 and 
IFNγ in response to CMVpp65 were enhanced with depletion of MDSC expanded in 
presence of HIV (HIV MDSC), but decreased with culture of HIV MDSC with 
autologous PBMCs. CMVpp65 specific CD4+CX3CR1+IFNγ+ cells were also decreased in 
presence of HIV MDSC. HIV MDSC overexpressed B7-H4 and silencing B7-H4 increased 
the production of IL-2 and IFNγ from autologous cells; a process mediated 
through increased phosphorylated (p)-Akt upon stimulation with CMVpp65. 
Additionally, IL-27 regulated the expression of B7-H4 on HIV MDSC, and 
controlled CMV-specific T cell activity by limiting CMVpp65-IFNγ production and 
expanding CD4+IL-10+ regulatory T cells. These findings provide new therapeutic 
targets to control the chronic immune activation and endothelial cell 
inflammation observed in HIV-infected persons.

DOI: 10.1038/srep44485
PMCID: PMC5364511
PMID: 28338007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


249. Gynecol Oncol. 2017 Jun;145(3):446-452. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2017.03.006.
Epub  2017 Mar 25.

Characterization of immune regulatory molecules B7-H4 and PD-L1 in low and high 
grade endometrial tumors.

Bregar A(1), Deshpande A(2), Grange C(2), Zi T(2), Stall J(3), Hirsch H(2), 
Reeves J(2), Sathyanarayanan S(2), Growdon WB(1), Rueda BR(4).

Author information:
(1)Vincent Center for Reproductive Biology, Vincent Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States; 
Gynecologic Oncology Division, Vincent Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States.
(2)Jounce Therapeutics, Inc., Cambridge, MA, United States.
(3)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, 
United States.
(4)Vincent Center for Reproductive Biology, Vincent Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States; 
Gynecologic Oncology Division, Vincent Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, United States. Electronic 
address: brueda@mgh.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this investigation was to characterize the 
expression landscape of immune regulatory molecules programmed death-ligand-1 
(PD-L1, B7-H1) and B7-H4 in a cohort of endometrial tumors across the spectrum 
of grade and histology.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With institutional review board approval, 70 endometrial 
tumors from patients with known clinical outcomes were identified representing a 
spectrum of grade and histology. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was performed for 
PD-L1 and B7-H4 and scored. Microsatellite instability (MSI) status was assessed 
for endometrioid tumors using the institutional IHC assay for expression of the 
mismatch repair (MMR) genes, MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 and PMS2. RNA sequencing data from 
the Cancer Genome Atlas was queried for expression levels of CD274 (PD-L1 
protein) and VTCN1 (B7-H4) across molecular subtypes of endometrial carcinoma 
and were correlated with a T cell infiltration index.
RESULTS: We identified 40 low grade endometrioid tumors and a cohort of 30 high 
grade tumors. PD-L1 expression was observed in both high and low grade 
endometrial tumors (56% vs 35%, p=0.07). In the low grade tumors, PD-L1 
expression was associated with MSI status (p<0.01). The high grade cohort had 
similar rates of PD-L1 expression compared to low grade MSI tumor (56% and 62% 
respectively), and both were distinct from low grade MSS tumors (22%, p<0.05). 
High (3+) B7-H4 positive cells were observed in both high and low grade 
carcinomas (33% and 31% respectively). RNA profiling data from confirmed highest 
CD274 expression in POLE and MSI tumors that was linearly correlated with T cell 
infiltration, while VTCN1 expression appeared consistent across molecular 
subtypes.
CONCLUSIONS: While PD-L1 expression correlated with MSI and high grade tumors, 
B7-H4 expression was independent of grade, histology and immune cell 
infiltration. The development and testing of multi-agent therapeutics targeting 
PD-L1 and B7-H4 may be a novel strategy for endometrial tumors.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2017.03.006
PMID: 28347512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Oncotarget. 2017 Apr 18;8(16):27137-27144. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.15648.

Prognostic role of B7-H4 in patients with non-small cell lung cancer: A 
meta-analysis.

Tan Z(1), Shen W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Shenzhen Hospital of Southern Medical University, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, P.R. China.

B7 homolog 4 (B7-H4) has been recently reported to be a prognostic marker in 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in some studies. However, the results 
remained conflicting. Thus, we aimed to comprehensively assess the association 
between B7-H4 expression and prognosis of NSCLC patients by performing a 
meta-analysis. Relevant publications were thoroughly searched of PubMed, Embase, 
Web of Science and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI). The pooled 
odds ratios (ORs) and hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) 
were applied to evaluate the effects. A total of 9 studies comprising 1444 
patients were included in this meta-analysis. B7-H4 overexpression was 
associated with presence of lymph node metastasis (OR=3.59, 95%CI=2.39-5.38, 
p<0.001; fixed effect), advanced TNM stage (OR=2.36, 95%CI=1.2-4.67, p=0.013; 
random effect), and poor differentiation (OR=2.11, 95%CI=1.12-3.99, p=0.021; 
fixed effect). However, B7-H4 had no significant correlation with gender, age or 
histology in NSCLC. Furthermore, in a fixed effects model, the results indicated 
that B7-H4 overexpression was significantly associated with poor OS (HR=2.03, 
95%CI=1.41-2.92, p<0.001). This meta-analysis demonstrated that high B7-H4 
expression is an unfavorable prognostic factor in NSCLC. Because few studies 
were included for meta-analysis and almost all included studies were performed 
on Chinese patients, therefore; large scale prospective studies are needed to 
verify our results.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.15648
PMCID: PMC5432323
PMID: 28404927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


251. Gene. 2017 Aug 5;623:24-28. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.04.003. Epub 2017 Apr
13.

Clinical significance of the B7-H4 as a novel prognostic marker in breast 
cancer.

Huang H(1), Li C(2), Ren G(3).

Author information:
(1)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology and Epigenetics, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, No. 1 You yi Road, 
Chongqing, 400016, China.
(2)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Chongqing Medical University, No. 1 You yi Road, Chongqing 400016, China. 
Electronic address: lichyanun@163.com.
(3)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology and Epigenetics, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, No. 1 You yi Road, 
Chongqing, 400016, China; Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, No. 1 You yi Road, 
Chongqing 400016, China. Electronic address: rgs726@163.com.

Increasing evidence has suggested that B7-H4 plays an important role in cancer 
development not only in immune field. However, the correlation between B7-H4 
protein expression and clinical outcome in primary breast cancer has not been 
investigated. We examined the expression of B7-H4 by Immunohistochemistry in 147 
cases of invasive breast carcinomas. Correlation of B7-H4 protein levels with 
pathological tumor stages and overall survival rates of breast cancer patients 
were also analyzed. Uni-and multivariate analyses methods were performed to 
evaluate the prognostic value of B7-H4 expression levels. We found that 
different expression levels of B7-H4 on breast cancer cells were significantly 
correlated with patient's pTNM (pathological staging, T: primary tumor; N: 
regional lymph node; M: distant metastasis) stage (P<0.001), overall survival 
(P=0.000), p53 (P=0.041). Furthermore, univariate analyses showed that the 
overall survival rate of the patients with higher B7-H4 expression was 
significantly worse than that of the patients with lower B7-H4 expression 
(P<0.001). Multivariate analyses showed that B7-H4 was a significant independent 
prognostic indicator (P=0.000). Our results suggest that B7-H4 might be closely 
associated with breast cancer progression. Its high expression may serve as a 
potential prognostic biomarker in human breast cancer.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.04.003
PMID: 28412458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Turk J Med Sci. 2017 Apr 18;47(2):443-446. doi: 10.3906/sag-1603-54.

Association of B7-H4 gene polymorphisms in urothelial bladder cancer.

Özgöz A(1), Şamli M(2), Dinçel D(3), Şahin A(2), Ince Ü(4), Sağlican Y(4), Balci 
F(3), Şamli H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Fazıl Boyner Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Kastamonu University, Kastamonu, Turkey.
(2)Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine, Acıbadem University, İstanbul, 
Turkey.
(3)Department of Genetics, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Uludağ University, 
Bursa, Turkey.
(4)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Acıbadem University, İstanbul, 
Turkey.

BACKGROUND/AIM: We aimed to study polymorphisms of the B7-H4 gene in order to 
evaluate a possible association in urothelial carcinoma, as it is highly 
expressed in cancer tissues.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study B7-H4 gene rs10754339, rs10801935, and 
rs3738414 SNPs were studied by PCR-RFLP method in paraffin-embedded tumor 
specimens from 62 urothelial carcinoma patients and in a control group including 
30 patients without bladder cancer.
RESULTS: We detected that the rs10754339 polymorphism was more frequent in the 
cancer patients when compared with the control group (P < 0.05). Only the 
rs3738414 polymorphism showed a statistically significant difference in 
frequency between pathologic diagnostic groups.
CONCLUSION: The rs10754339 AA genotype distribution was found to have a higher 
frequency whereas the rs3738414 AG genotype distribution was lower in the 
bladder cancer group (P < 0.05). None of the genotype distributions showed a 
significant difference from the control group for the rs10801935 polymorphism. 
We conclude that B7-H4 has the potential to be a useful prognostic marker in 
urothelial carcinoma.

DOI: 10.3906/sag-1603-54
PMID: 28425229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Oncol Lett. 2017 Apr;13(4):2207-2215. doi: 10.3892/ol.2017.5688. Epub 2017
Feb  7.

Increased B7-H4 expression during esophageal squamous cell carcinogenesis is 
associated with IL-6/STAT3 signaling pathway activation in mice.

Chen X(1)(2), Wang W(1)(3), Man H(1), Li P(1), Shan B(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center, Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, Shijiazhuang, 
Hebei 050011, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei 050011, P.R. China.
(3)Clinical Laboratory, Hebei General Hospital, Shijiazhuang, Hebei 050051, P.R. 
China.

B7-homolog 4 (B7-H4), one of the costimulatory molecules of the B7 family, has 
been reported to be widely expressed in multiple types of cancer tissues, and to 
be important in tumor progression and poor prognosis. However, the role of B7-H4 
in esophageal precancerous lesions has not been elucidated yet. In the present 
study, a model of esophageal squamous cell carcinogenesis was established in 208 
C57BL/6 mice by 4-nitroquinoline-1-oxide (4NQO) drinking water of mice, and the 
changes in the expression of B7-H4 during the whole pathological process were 
investigated. Hematoxylin and eosin staining results demonstrated that the 
pathological stage was exacerbated with the increase in time of 4NQO-mediated 
carcinogenesis induction, and the pathological features were similar to those 
observed in humans. Immunohistochemistry results revealed that B7-H4 expression 
was upregulated and positively correlated with pathological stage (P<0.0001) as 
well as with infiltration of cluster of differentiation (CD) 11b+ macrophage 
cells (P=0.0002). In addition, B7-H4 messenger RNA expression increased in the 
esophagi of model mice compared with that of control mice, which was positively 
associated with the gene expression of interleukin (IL)-6 and signal transducer 
and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), according to the results of reverse 
transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis. Similarly, B7-H4 
protein expression was upregulated in the esophageal tissues of model mice in 
comparison with that of control mice, and was positively associated with IL-6 
expression and STAT3 phosphorylation. In conclusion, the present data suggested 
that B7-H4 expression increased during esophageal squamous cell carcinogenesis 
in mice in association with IL-6/STAT3 signaling pathway activation.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2017.5688
PMCID: PMC5403357
PMID: 28454382


254. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Sep 1;23(17):5202-5209. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-3107. Epub 2017 May 24.

B7-H3 Expression in NSCLC and Its Association with B7-H4, PD-L1 and 
Tumor-Infiltrating Lymphocytes.

Altan M(1)(2), Pelekanou V(3), Schalper KA(1)(3), Toki M(3), Gaule P(3), Syrigos 
K(4), Herbst RS(1), Rimm DL(5)(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Medical Oncology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(2)Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, 
Texas.
(3)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.
(4)Third Department of Medicine, University of Athens, School of Medicine, 
Sotiria General Hospital, Athens, Greece.
(5)Section of Medical Oncology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut. 
david.rimm@yale.edu.

Purpose: The immune checkpoint PD-1 and its receptor B7-H1 (PD-L1) are 
successful therapeutic targets in cancer but less is known about other B7 family 
members. Here, we determined the expression level of B7-H3 protein in non-small 
cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and evaluated its association with tumor-infiltrating 
lymphocytes (TIL), PD-L1, B7-H4, and major clinicopathologic characteristics is 
in 3 NSCLC cohorts.Experimental design: We used multiplexed automated 
quantitative immunofluorescence (QIF) to assess the levels of B7-H3, PD-L1, 
B7-H4, and TILs in 634 NSCLC cases with validated antibodies. Associations 
between the marker levels, major clinicopathologic variables and survival were 
analyzed.Results: Expression of B7-H3 protein was found in 80.4% (510/634) of 
the cases. High B7-H3 protein level (top 10 percentile) was associated with poor 
overall survival (P < 0.05). Elevated B7-H3 was consistently associated with 
smoking history across the 3 cohorts, but not with sex, age, clinical stage, and 
histology. Coexpression of B7-H3 and PD-L1 was found in 17.6% of the cases 
(112/634) and with B7-H4 in 10% (63/634). B7-H4 and PD-L1 were simultaneously 
detected only in 1.8% of NSCLCs (12/634). The expression of B7-H3 was not 
associated with the levels of CD3-, CD8-, and CD20-positive TILs.Conclusions: 
B7-H3 protein is expressed in the majority of NSCLCs and is associated with 
smoking history. High levels of B7-H3 protein have a negative prognostic impact 
in lung carcinomas. Coexpression of B7-H3 with PD-L1 and B7-H4 is relatively 
low, suggesting a nonredundant biological role of these targets. Clin Cancer 
Res; 23(17); 5202-9. ©2017 AACR.

©2017 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-16-3107
PMCID: PMC5581684
PMID: 28539467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Relevant Conflicts of Interest: Dr. Rimm has 
served as a consultant/advisor for Astra Zeneca, Bristol Meyers Squib, Cell 
Signaling Technology, Ultivue, and Perkin Elmer and has received grant support 
from Genoptix and Gilead Sciences


255. Hum Pathol. 2017 Aug;66:79-85. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2017.05.023. Epub 2017
Jun  23.

B7-H4 is a prognostic biomarker for poor survival in patients with pancreatic 
cancer.

Shen L(1), Qian Y(1), Wu W(2), Weng T(2), Wang FXC(3), Hong B(4), Wu Z(5), Wang 
Q(1), Sang Y(1), Zhang H(5), Zhou X(6), Yao H(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310009, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious 
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Hangzhou 310003, China.
(3)Department of Bioengineering, Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer 
Science, The University of Texas at Dallas, TX 79106, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Precision Diagnosis and Treatment for Hepatobiliary and 
Pancreatic Tumor of Zhejiang Province, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China.
(6)Department of Gynecology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou 310003, China. Electronic address: 
zxh828@hotmail.com.
(7)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious 
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Hangzhou 310003, China. Electronic address: yaohangping@zju.edu.cn.

B7-H4 belongs to the immune costimulatory B7 family and is thought to negatively 
regulate T-cell-mediated immunity, and may contribute an important role in tumor 
immune evasion. Although the expression of B7-H4 has been observed in human 
pancreatic cancer, the prognostic significance of this expression is poorly 
understood. This present study explored the prognostic value of B7-H4 in 
pancreatic cancer. Patients with pancreatic cancer and healthy controls were 
recruited at the Second Affiliated Hospital to Zhejiang University from January 
2011 to December 2014. Expression of B7-H4 was assessed by immunohistochemistry. 
Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that B7-H4 was expressed in 100% 
(188/188) of the pancreatic cancer tumor tissue samples, while only in 68% 
(17/25) of normal pancreatic tissue samples. Furthermore, the expression levels 
of B7-H4 in pancreatic cancer patients were significantly higher than in 
controls (P<.01). A significant difference in B7-H4 expression was observed 
between patients with late tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage (III and IV) and 
early TNM stage (I and II) (P<.01). The expression of B7-H4 was associated with 
distant metastasis (P<.01) and differentiation (P<.01). In addition, B7-H4 
expression (P<.01), distant metastasis (P<.01), TNM stage (P<.01), 
differentiation (P<.01) and chemotherapy treatment (P<.05) were indicators of 
poor overall survival time. Multivariate survival analysis indicated that B7-H4 
expression, distant metastasis, and chemotherapy treatment (P<.05) were 
independent prognostic indicators of poor overall survival. In conclusion, B7-H4 
is highly expressed in pancreatic cancer, and is an independent predictor of 
poor prognosis in patients with pancreatic cancer. B7-H4 may represent an 
immunotherapeutic target in pancreatic cancer.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2017.05.023
PMID: 28600225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Mol Cancer Ther. 2017 Jul;16(7):1203-1211. doi:
10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-16-0761.

New B7 Family Checkpoints in Human Cancers.

Ni L(1), Dong C(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Immunology and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, China. lingni@tsinghua.edu.cn.
(2)Institute for Immunology and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, China.

T cells are the main effector cells in immune response against tumors. The 
activation of T cells is regulated by the innate immune system through positive 
and negative costimulatory molecules. Targeting immune checkpoint regulators 
such as programmed cell death 1 (PD-1)/PD-1 ligand 1 (PD-L1) and CTL antigen 4 
(CTLA-4) has achieved notable benefit in a variety of cancers, which leads to 
multiple clinical trials with antibodies targeting the other related B7/CD28 
family members. Recently, five new B7 family ligands, B7-H3, B7-H4, B7-H5, 
B7-H6, and B7-H7, were identified. Here we review recent understanding of new B7 
family checkpoint molecules as they have come to the front of cancer research 
with the concept that tumor cells exploit them to escape immune surveillance. 
The aim of this article is to address the structure and expression of the new B7 
family molecules as well as their roles in controlling and suppressing immune 
responses of T cells as well as NK cells. We also discuss clinical significance 
and contribution of these checkpoint expressions in human cancers. Mol Cancer 
Ther; 16(7); 1203-11. ©2017 AACR.

©2017 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-16-0761
PMCID: PMC5568666
PMID: 28679835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2017 Jul 23;39(7):524-527. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2017.07.009.

[The value of B7-H4 and carcinoembryonic antigen in diagnosing the benign and 
malignant pleural effusion].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Wei F(1), Wei Y(2), Li LF(3), Li GL(1), Wang GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou 450052, China.
(2)Rehabilitation Department, the Seventh People's Hospital of Zhengzhou, 
Zhengzhou 450000, China.
(3)Biotherapy Center, the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou 450052, China.

Objective: To evaluate the value of combined detection of negative costimulatory 
molecule B7-H4 and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in diagnosing malignant and 
benign pleural effusion. Methods: Ninety-seven pleural effusion specimen were 
collected, 55 of which were diagnosed as malignant pleural effusion and 42 were 
benign pleural effusion. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was used to 
examine the concentration of B7-H4 and CEA in pleural effusion. 
Electro-chemiluminescence immunoassay was used to detect the CEA level in 
pleural effusion. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was established 
to analyze and evaluate the single or combined detection of B7-H4 and CEA in 
diagnosing malignant and benign pleural effusion. Results: The concentrations of 
B7-H4 and CEA in malignant pleural effusion (MPE) group were (60.08±35.04) ng/ml 
and (41.49±37.16) ng/ml, respectively, obviously higher than (27.26±9.55) ng/ml 
and (2.41±0.94) ng/ml of benign pleural effusion (BPE) group (both P<0.01). Area 
under curve (AUC) of B7-H4 was 0.884 in MPE groupand the diagnostic sensitivity 
and specificity were 81.8% and 90.5%, respectively, at the optimized cut off 
value of 37.25 ng/ml. Likewise, area under curve (AUC) of CEA was 0.954 and the 
sensitivity and specificity were 87.3% and 95.2%, respectively, at the cut off 
value of 4.18 ng/ml. When B7-H4 >37.25 ng/ml or CEA>4.18 ng/ml, the sensitivity 
of diagnosis as MPE was down-regulated to 90.9% and the specificity was elevated 
to 88.1%. When B7-H4 >37.25 ng/ml and CEA>4.18 ng/ml, the sensitivity of 
diagnosis as MPE was down-regulated to 78.2% and the specificity was elevated to 
97.6%. The sensitivity and specificity of combined detection of B7-H4 and CEA to 
diagnose MPE were elevated to 90.9% and 97.6%, respectively. The level of B7-H4 
in MPE and BPE were both positively correlated with CEA (r=0.670, P=0.001 in MPE 
and r=0.002, P=0.001 in BEP). Conclusions: B7-H4 is a potential tumor marker in 
diagnosing the benign and malignant pleural effusion. Although the diagnostic 
value of B7-H4 may not precede to CEA, the combined detection of B7-H4 and CEA 
can improve the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of MPE.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨B7－H4和癌胚抗原(CEA)联合检测鉴别诊断良、恶性胸腔积液的价值。 方法： 
收集97例胸腔积液标本，其中恶性胸腔积液55例，良性胸腔积液42例。采用酶联免疫吸附法检测B7－H4水平，采用电化学发光法检测CEA水平，采用受试者工作特征(ROC)曲线评价B7－H4、CEA和B7－H4联合CEA检测对良、恶性胸腔积液的鉴别诊断价值。 
结果： 恶性胸腔积液组和良性胸腔积液组患者的B7－H4水平分别为(60.08±35.04 
)ng/ml和(27.26±9.55)ng/ml，CEA水平分别为(41.49±37.16 
)ng/ml和(2.41±0.94)ng/ml，两组患者的B7－H4和CEA水平差异均有统计学意义(均P<0.01)。B7－H4诊断恶性胸腔积液的ROC曲线下面积为0.884，最佳诊断临界值为37.25 
ng/ml，敏感度和特异度分别为81.8%和90.5%。CEA诊断恶性胸腔积液的ROC曲线下面积为0.954，最佳诊断临界值为4.18 
ng/ml，敏感度和特异度分别为87.3%和95.2%。B7－H4和CEA并联检测，即B7－H4>37.25 ng/ml或CEA>4.18 
ng/ml时，则为恶性胸腔积液，其敏感度可提高至90.9%，特异度降低至88.1%；B7－H4和CEA串联检测，即B7－H4>37.25 
ng/ml且CEA>4.18 
ng/ml时，则为恶性胸腔积液，其敏感度降低至78.2%，特异度提高至97.6%。B7－H4和CEA联合检测时，敏感度和特异度可分别提高至90.9%和97.6%。恶性胸腔积液中B7－H4与CEA水平呈正相关(r＝0.670，P＝0.001)，良性胸腔积液中B7－H4与CEA水平呈正相关(r＝0.002，P＝0.001)。 
结论： B7－H4可鉴别诊断良、恶性胸腔积液，但诊断效能未优于CEA。B7－H4和CEA联合检测可提高诊断恶性胸腔积液的敏感度和特异度。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2017.07.009
PMID: 28728299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Leukemia. 2017 Oct;31(10):2260-2264. doi: 10.1038/leu.2017.232. Epub 2017
Jul  24.

B7-H4 enhances the differentiation of murine leukemia-initiating cells via the 
PTEN/AKT/RCOR2/RUNX1 pathways.

Xia F(1)(2), Zhang Y(1), Xie L(1), Jiang H(1), Zeng H(1), Chen C(1), Liu L(1), 
He X(1), Hao X(1), Fang X(1), Liu X(1), Zhang F(1), Gu H(1), Wan J(3), Cheng 
Y(4), Zhang CC(5), Chen GQ(1), Lu Y(2), Yu Z(1), Zheng J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathophysiology, Hongqiao International Institute of Medicine, 
Shanghai Tongren Hospital/Faculty of Basic Medicine, Key Laboratory of Cell 
Differentiation and Apoptosis of Chinese Ministry of Education, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Institute and Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Shanghai Ninth 
People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Department of Hematology, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Hematology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)Departments of Physiology and Developmental Biology, UT Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, TX, USA.

DOI: 10.1038/leu.2017.232
PMCID: PMC5629360
PMID: 28744012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


259. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2017 Sep 30;491(4):912-918. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.07.135. Epub 2017 Jul 25.

MicroRNA-125b-5p modulates the inflammatory state of macrophages via targeting 
B7-H4.

Diao W(1), Lu L(1), Li S(1), Chen J(2), Zen K(3), Li L(4).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, NJU Advanced Institute 
for Life Sciences (NAILS), School of Life Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 
Xianlin Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210046, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, NJU Advanced Institute 
for Life Sciences (NAILS), School of Life Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 
Xianlin Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210046, China. Electronic address: 
jnchen@nju.edu.cn.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, NJU Advanced Institute 
for Life Sciences (NAILS), School of Life Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 
Xianlin Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210046, China. Electronic address: 
kzen@nju.edu.cn.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, NJU Advanced Institute 
for Life Sciences (NAILS), School of Life Sciences, Nanjing University, 163 
Xianlin Road, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210046, China. Electronic address: 
liminli@nju.edu.cn.

As a newly identified negative costimulatory molecule of B7 family, B7-H4 
suppresses T cell function via inhibiting cell proliferation and cytokine 
secretion. Although B7-H4 mRNA is widely distributed in various tissues, its 
protein expression is strongly limited, suggesting B7-H4 may be regulated 
post-transcriptionally. However, the mechanism underlying the inducement of 
B7-H4 expression remains unclear. In the present study, we identified specific 
targeting sites for miR-125b-5p in the 3'-UTR of B7-H4 gene, and showed that 
overexpression of miR-125b-5p downregulated B7-H4 expression in macrophages. We 
also demonstrated that in the activated macrophages, B7-H4 expression could be 
significantly induced by dexamethasone treatment post-transcriptionally, and 
that the induction of B7-H4 expression was accomplished by inversely correlated 
alteration of miR-125b-5p level. Additionally, our data showed that the 
inflammatory state of macrophages was enhanced by miR-125b-5p at least partially 
via targeting B7-H4. Taken together, our results demonstrated for the first time 
that miR-125b-5p could regulate the inflammatory state of macrophages via 
directly targeting B7-H4.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2017.07.135
PMID: 28754594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Cell Transplant. 2006 May;15(5):399-410. doi: 10.3727/000000006783981837.

Suppression of Human T-Cell Responses to β-Cells by Activation of B7-H4 Pathway.

Ou D(1), Wang X(2), Metzger DL(2), Ao Z(1), Pozzilli P(3), James RFL(4), Chen 
L(5), Warnock GL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 
1L8, Canada.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 
4H4, Canada.
(3)St. Bartholomew's Hospital, Royal London School of Medicine, London, C1A 7BE, 
UK.
(4)Department of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, University of Leicester, 
Leicester, LE2 7LX, UK.
(5)Department of Dermatology and Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

B7-H4, a recently described member of the B7 family of cosignal molecules, is 
thought to be involved in the regulation of cellular and humoral immune 
responses through receptors on activated T and B cells. Human islet cells 
express positive B7-H4 mRNA in RT-PCR assays, but not B7-H4 protein on cell 
surface in flow cytometric analyses. To investigate the regulatory effects of 
activation of the B7-H4 pathway on the function of activated T cells of patients 
with type 1 diabetes (T1D), we have used our in vitro human experimental system, 
including human β-cell antigen-specific T-cell clones and human β-cell lines CM 
and HP62, as well as primary islet cells. B7-H4.Ig protein was purified from the 
culture supernatant of 293T cells transfected by a B7-H4.Ig plasmid (pMIgV, 
containing a human B7-H4 cDNA and a mouse IgG2a Fc cDNA). Our preliminary 
studies showed that immobilized fusion protein human B7-H4.Ig (coated with 5 
μg/ml for 2 h at 37°C), but not control Ig, clearly inhibited the proliferation 
of activated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells of patients induced by anti-CD3 antibody in 
CFSE assays. B7-H4.Ig also arrested cell cycle progression of T cells in G0/G1 
phase and induced T-cell apoptosis as measured by BrdU-7-AAD flow cytometric 
analysis. To determine the cytoprotective effects of B7-H4, we developed 
transfectants of human β-cell lines CM and HP62 and islet cells transfected with 
the B7-H4.Ig plasmid, using empty vector transfectants as controls. The results 
demonstrate that cell-associated B7-H4.Ig expressed on human β-cells clearly 
inhibits the cytotoxicity of the T-cell clones to targeted human β-cells in 51Cr 
release cytotoxicity assays. Activation of the B7-H4 pathway may represent a 
novel immunotherapeutic approach to inhibit T-cell responses for the prevention 
of β-cell destruction in T1D.

DOI: 10.3727/000000006783981837
PMID: 28871868


261. BMC Cancer. 2017 Sep 18;17(1):652. doi: 10.1186/s12885-017-3615-8.

Analysis of B7-H4 expression in metastatic pleural adenocarcinoma and 
therapeutic potential of its antagonists.

Chen C(1), Qu QX(2), Xie F(3), Zhu WD(4), Zhu YH(5), Huang JA(6).

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
188 Shizi Street, Suzhou, 215006, China.
(2)Clinical Immunology Laboratory, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, 788 Renmin Road, Suzhou, 215007, China.
(3)Pathology Division, Soochow University, 1 Shizi Street, Suzhou, 215006, 
China.
(4)Pathology Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
188 Shizi Street, Suzhou, 215006, China.
(5)Respiratory Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
188 Shizi Street, Suzhou, 215006, China. zhuyehansz@sina.com.
(6)Respiratory Department, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
188 Shizi Street, Suzhou, 215006, China. huang_jian_an@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The increasing incidence and poor outcome associated with malignant 
pleural effusion (MPE) requires finding an effective treatment for this disease. 
Inhibitory B7-H4 is expressed in many different human cancers but its role in 
malignant pleural tissue has yet to be established.
METHODS: Here, patients with metastatic pleural adenocarcinoma (MPA) or with 
early-stage lung adenocarcinoma were clinically and statistically analyzed. 
Immunohistochemistry and confocal microscopy were used to determinate the 
expression of B7-H4 in the cancer cells. By using MPE model, we sought to a 
potential immunotherapy for MPE with anti-B7-H4 mAb.
RESULTS: When compared to early-stage lung adenocarcinoma, MPA possessed higher 
level of nuclei membranous B7-H4 and lower cytoplasmic B7-H4 expression. Also, 
nuclei membranous B7-H4 expression was found to be positively correlated to 
Ki-67 expression, and indicated a possible poor prognosis of MPA. In mouse MPE 
model, intra-pleurally injection of anti-B7-H4 mAb effectively suppressed MPE 
formation.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our data was in support of the significance of 
B7-H4 expression in MPA, which also suggest it warrants further exploration for 
potential immunotherapy of MPE.

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-017-3615-8
PMCID: PMC5604341
PMID: 28923053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
study was approved by the committee for medical and health research ethics of 
the First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University. Medical personnel explained 
to each patient the aim of the pathologic analysis. All cases signed a written 
consent. All methods and animal experimental protocols were approved and 
performed in accordance with the relevant guidelines and regulations of 
committee for medical and health research ethics of the First Affiliated 
Hospital of Soochow University. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


262. Oncotarget. 2017 Jun 19;8(40):68825-68836. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.18566. 
eCollection 2017 Sep 15.

B7-H4 as an independent prognostic indicator of cancer patients: a 
meta-analysis.

Meng Z(#)(1), Wang F(#)(1), Zhang Y(1), Li S(1), Wu H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pancreatic Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430022, People's Republic 
of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum in
    Oncotarget. 2018 Feb 26;9(16):13100.

The expression of B7-H4 was observed in a variety of tumors, however the 
prognostic value in cancer was still controversial. Therefore, we conducted this 
meta-analysis to explore the potential role of B7-H4 in cancer prognostic 
prediction. Twenty-seven studies including 3771 patients were brought into the 
analysis according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria. The pooled results 
demonstrated that elevated B7-H4 predicted a poor OS (HR = 1.93, 95% CI 
1.71-2.18, P < 0.001) and DFS (HR = 1.84, 95% CI 1.46-2.33, P < 0.001). Subgroup 
analysis showed that races, tumor types, sample sources, analysis types, sources 
of HR and sample sizes exhibited non-significant distinctions with OS (PS = 
0.878, PS = 0.143, PS = 0.613, PS = 0.639, PS = 0.48 and PS = 0.528, 
respectively). PubMed, Embase and the Cochrane Library were searched up to April 
7, 2017, to recognize the available studies for assessing the association 
between B7-H4 and cancer patients' outcome. We extracted the hazard ratio (HR), 
relative ratio (RR), odds ratio (OR) with their 95% confidence interval (CI) for 
overall survival (OS) or disease-free survival (DFS) as the effect size (ES) for 
the analysis. This meta-analysis demonstrates high expression of B7-H4 is a 
negative correlation with the outcome of cancer patients.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.18566
PMCID: PMC5620299
PMID: 28978159

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare that 
there was not any financial or ethical conflicts of interest.


263. Biochim Biophys Acta Rev Cancer. 2017 Dec;1868(2):571-583. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbcan.2017.10.006. Epub 2017 Oct 19.

Tumor cell-associated immune checkpoint molecules - Drivers of malignancy and 
stemness.

Marcucci F(1), Rumio C(2), Corti A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences, University of Milan, 
via Trentacoste 2, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: fabmarcu@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pharmacological and Biomolecular Sciences, University of Milan, 
via Trentacoste 2, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: cristiano.rumio@unimi.it.
(3)Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, DIBIT-Division of Experimental Oncology, 
IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, via Olgettina 58, Milan, Italy. 
Electronic address: corti.angelo@hsr.it.

Inhibitory or stimulatory immune checkpoint molecules are expressed on a 
sizeable fraction of tumor cells in different tumor types. It was thought that 
the main function of tumor cell-associated immune checkpoint molecules would be 
the modulation (down- or upregulation) of antitumor immune responses. In recent 
years, however, it has become clear that the expression of immune checkpoint 
molecules on tumor cells has important consequences on the biology of the tumor 
cells themselves. In particular, a causal relationship between the expression of 
these molecules and the acquisition of malignant traits has been demonstrated. 
Thus, immune checkpoint molecules have been shown to promote the 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition of tumor cells, the acquisition of 
tumor-initiating potential and resistance to apoptosis and antitumor drugs, as 
well as the propensity to disseminate and metastasize. Herein, we review this 
evidence, with a main focus on PD-L1, the most intensively investigated tumor 
cell-associated immune checkpoint molecule and for which most information is 
available. Then, we discuss more concisely other tumor cell-associated immune 
checkpoint molecules that have also been shown to induce the acquisition of 
malignant traits, such as PD-1, B7-H3, B7-H4, Tim-3, CD70, CD28, CD137, CD40 and 
CD47. Open questions in this field as well as some therapeutic approaches that 
can be derived from this knowledge, are also addressed.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbcan.2017.10.006
PMID: 29056539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Oncotarget. 2017 Sep 8;8(46):80878-80888. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.20718. 
eCollection 2017 Oct 6.

B7-H4 overexpression is essential for early hepatocellular carcinoma progression 
and recurrence.

Kang FB(1), Wang L(2), Sun DX(1), Li HJ(1), Li D(1), Wang Y(1), Kang JW(1).

Author information:
(1)The Liver Disease Diagnosis and Treatment Center, Bethune International Peace 
Hospital, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Oncology, The Third Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, P.R. China.

B7-H4, another member of costimulatory molecule, has been shown to be 
overexpressed in multiple types of tumors, including hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC). However, the specific biological role of B7-H4 in HCC still needs to be 
further explored. In this study, we observed that B7-H4 was highly overexpressed 
in HCC tissues and cells, and its overexpression strongly correlated with 
patient's TNM stage, overall survival and early recurrence. Downregulation of 
B7-H4 significantly suppressed cell growth, invasion, and stemness of HCC by 
inducing apoptosis in the in vitro experiment. In addition, depletion of B7-H4 
could help restore CD8+ T anti-tumor immunity by elevating the expression and 
secretion levels of CD107a, granzyme A, granzyme B, perforin and IFN-γ. In a 
xenografted mouse model of HCC, stable depletion of B7-H4 resulted in 
significantly smaller mean tumor volume and less mean tumor weight after 30 days 
of growth, compared to the control group. Together, our results provide insights 
into the diverse functions of B7-H4 involved in the pathogenesis, recurrence and 
anti-tumor immunity of HCC, indicating B7-H4 as a novel and effective approach 
for future treatment strategies that benefits anticancer therapy.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.20718
PMCID: PMC5655246
PMID: 29113351

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


265. Oncotarget. 2017 Sep 20;8(47):82740-82753. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.21098. 
eCollection 2017 Oct 10.

Tumor-expressed immune checkpoint B7x promotes cancer progression and 
antigen-specific CD8 T cell exhaustion and suppressive innate immune cells.

Ohaegbulam KC(1), Liu W(2), Jeon H(1), Almo SC(2)(3), Zang X(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, 
USA.
(3)Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 
Bronx, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Urology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.

B7x (B7-H4 or B7S1) is a coinhibitory member of the B7 immune checkpoint ligand 
family that regulates immune function following ligation with its unknown 
cognate receptors. B7x has limited expression on normal tissues, but is 
up-regulated on solid human tumors to inhibit anti-tumor immunity and associates 
with poor clinical prognosis. We assessed the contribution of cytokine stimuli 
to induce surface B7x expression on cancer cells and the role of tumor-expressed 
B7x in a murine pulmonary metastasis model, and finally evaluated the potential 
interaction between B7x and Neuropilin-1, a suggested potential cognate 
receptor. We showed that pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines IFNγ, 
TNFα, and IL-10 did not induce expression of B7x on human or murine cancer 
cells. Following i.v. injection of CT26, a murine colon cancer cell line in the 
BALB/c background, we observed a significant increase in tumor burden in the 
lung of B7x-expressing CT26 mice compared to B7x-negative parental CT26 control 
mice. This was marked by a significant increase in M2 tumor associated 
macrophages and antigen-specific CD8 T cell exhaustion. Finally, we found 
through multiple systems that there was no evidence for B7x and Neuropilin-1 
direct interaction. Thus, the B7x pathway has an essential role in modulating 
the innate and adaptive immune cell infiltrate in the tumor microenvironment 
with its currently unknown cognate receptor(s).

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.21098
PMCID: PMC5669925
PMID: 29137299

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST X. Zang is the inventor on 
a patent concerning antibodies to B7x for treatment of cancer. The remaining 
authors declare no competing financial interests.


266. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2017;44(2):494-504. doi: 10.1159/000485086. Epub 2017
Nov  17.

MicroRNA Expression Profiling of Pancreatic Cancer Cell Line L3.6p1 Following 
B7-H4 Knockdown.

Qian Y(1), Feng L(2), Wu W(2), Weng T(2), Hu C(2), Hong B(3), Wang FXC(4), Shen 
L(1), Wang Q(1), Jin X(5), Yao H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, 
Collaborative Innovation Center for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious 
Diseases, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Hangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Bioengineering, Erik Jonsson School of Engineering and Computer 
Science, The University of Texas at Dallas, Dallas, Texas, USA.
(5)Department of Basic Medicine, Medical College, Shaoxing University, Shaoxing, 
China.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Co-stimulating molecule B7-H4 regulates T cell-mediated immune 
responses, participates in tumor immune escape, and promotes the proliferation 
and metastasis of pancreatic cancer cells. However, the specific mechanisms are 
unclear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) participated in the pathogenesis and progression of 
cancer.
METHODS: In this study, a microarray technique was used to screen B7-H4-related 
differentially expressed miRNAs in a pancreatic cancer cell line find those 
associated with pancreatic cancer. Using a miRCURYTM LNA Array approach, we 
compared the miRNA expression profiles of L3.6p1 pancreatic cancer cells 
transfected with B7-H4 siRNA for 72 h with those transfected with non-target 
siRNAs.
RESULTS: B7-H4 siRNA significantly up-regulated 57 miRNAs and down-regulated 14 
miRNAs. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) 
Pathway analysis of predicted miRNA targets showed that these genes were mainly 
involved in protein binding, pathways in cancer, mitogen-activated protein 
kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-Akt 
(PI3K-Akt) signaling pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first description of target genes of B7-H4, showing 
that miRNAs participate in the B7-H4 mediated regulation of oncogenicity and 
pathogenesis of pancreatic cancer. These results may help us better understand 
the role of B7-H4 in the progression of pancreatic cancer and its possible 
mechanisms. We also provide novel biomarkers for potential treatments of 
pancreatic cancer.

© 2017 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000485086
PMID: 29145206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2019 Aug;27(7):515-522. doi: 
10.1097/PAI.0000000000000608.

B7-H4 is Inversely Correlated With T-Cell Infiltration in Clear Cell but Not 
Serous or Endometrioid Ovarian Cancer.

Pagnotti GM(1), Atkinson RM(2), Romeiser J(2), Akalin A(3), Korman MB(2), 
Shroyer KR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Stony Brook University.
(2)Department of Pathology, Stony Brook Medicine, Stony Brook, NY.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Massachusetts Memorial Medical Center, 
Worcester, MA.

B7-H4, a tumor-associated cell surface protein, is expressed in endometrioid 
(EM), serous (SE), and clear cell (CC) ovarian carcinomas. Prior in vitro 
studies from other groups indicated that elevated B7-H4 expression by tumor 
cells blocks T-cell activation; therefore, it had been postulated to play a role 
in shielding cancer cells from immune surveillance and averting apoptotic 
programs. To test the validity of these hypotheses, the present study was 
designed to compare the immunohistochemical staining intensity of B7-H4 in tumor 
cells of ovarian cancers with the number of tumor-infiltrating T cells and 
macrophages and with the levels of caspase-3 staining in apoptotic debris. 
Serial tissue sections from EM, SE, and CC carcinomas were analyzed across 
representative cross-sections of tumor resection specimens, demonstrating 
different levels of B7-H4 expression, highest in CC cancers. B7-H4 staining in 
CC tissue sections was significantly correlated with the number of CD3, CD4, and 
CD8 tumor-infiltrating T cells and with the number of CD14 tumor-infiltrating 
macrophages, but was not significantly related to caspase-3 staining. These 
results support the concept that high levels of B7-H4 expression are inversely 
correlated with tumor T-cell infiltration and with CD14-labeled macrophages but 
not caspase-3 expression in CC carcinomas. We did not, however, find clear 
evidence of a relationship between the lower levels of B7-H4 seen in EM and SE 
carcinomas and T cell or macrophage infiltration. Thus, high levels of B7-H4, as 
seen in CC carcinomas, is associated with decreased tumor infiltration by T 
cells and macrophages but the lower levels of expression, as observed in EM and 
SE carcinomas, appear less likely to play an effective role in protection from 
immune surveillance. Furthermore, we found no evidence of a correlation between 
B7-H4 expression and apoptosis. These findings highlight the importance of 
further investigation of B7-H4 as an immunomodulatory protein, to support the 
development of novel therapeutic interventions for improved efficacy of 
treatments for CC carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1097/PAI.0000000000000608
PMID: 29189263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Oncotarget. 2017 Sep 21;8(54):92227-92239. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.21152. 
eCollection 2017 Nov 3.

The tissue distribution and significance of B7-H4 in laryngeal carcinoma.

Chen L(1)(2), Jin M(1), Li C(1)(3), Shang Y(1)(4), Zhang Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical College, Dalian University, Dalian, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Laiwu City People Hospital, Laiwu, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)School of Pharmacy, Yanbian University, Yanji, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Orthopedics, Affiliated Hospital of Chifeng University, 
Chifeng, People's Republic of China.

The costimulatory signals CD28 and B7 have been shown to control tumor invasion 
and metastasis by regulating T cell activation, whereas the distribution 
characteristics of B7-associated proteins in laryngeal carcinoma (LC) tissue are 
still unclear. Here, the expression of members of the B7 superfamily, including 
B7-H1 (PD-L1), B7-DC (PD-L2) and B7-H4, in fifty-two LC samples was determined 
by immunohistochemistry, and the relationship between B7-H4 and 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT)-associated markers was further assessed 
by immunofluorescence double staining. Furthermore, the human LC cell lines, 
Hep-2 and TU212 cells, were further transfected to overexpress B7-H4, and cell 
invasion and metastasis were analyzed. The results showed that B7-H1, B7-DC and 
B7-H4 were expressed in the tumor cells, and their expression was restricted to 
the cell membrane and the cytoplasm. The positive rates of these molecules in 
the tumor tissues were 57.7% (30/52), 32.7% (17/52) and 34.6% (18/52), 
respectively. Interestingly, double immunofluorescence staining showed that 
B7-H4 is coexpression with EMT-related markers, including p-Smad2/3, Snail and 
Vimentin, in carcinoma cells. Moreover, overexpression of B7-H4 in Hep-2 cells 
promotes the expression of pSmad2/3 and Snail by activating AKT-STAT3 signaling. 
Transwell and wound-healing assays demonstrated that B7-H4 enhanced both Hep-2 
and TU212 cell invasion and metastasis. Our results suggest that B7-H4 transmits 
feedback signaling to tumor cells and promotes invasion and metastasis by 
promoting EMT progression. Therefore, blocking B7-H4 signaling might be a novel 
treatment strategy for LC.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.21152
PMCID: PMC5696176
PMID: 29190910

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
financial or commercial conflicts of interest.


269. Cell Death Dis. 2017 Dec 13;8(12):3205. doi: 10.1038/s41419-017-0015-6.

Upregulation of B7-H4 promotes tumor progression of intrahepatic 
cholangiocarcinoma.

Xie N(1)(2), Cai JB(1), Zhang L(1), Zhang PF(1), Shen YH(1), Yang X(1), Lu 
JC(1), Gao DM(1), Kang Q(2), Liu LX(2), Zhang C(1), Huang XY(1), Zou H(2), Zhang 
XY(1), Song ZJ(3), Sun HX(1), Fu BM(4), Ke AW(5), Shi GM(6).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Cancer Invasion of Chinese Ministry, 
Department of Liver Surgery and Liver Transplant of Zhongshan Hospital, Liver 
Cancer Institute of Fudan University, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, China.
(2)Department of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital 
of Kunming Medical University, Kunming, Yunnan, 650101, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, The First People's Hospital of Yunnan 
Province, 157 Jin Bi Road, Kunming, Yunnan, 650032, China.
(4)Department of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital 
of Kunming Medical University, Kunming, Yunnan, 650101, China. fubimang@163.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Cancer Invasion of Chinese Ministry, 
Department of Liver Surgery and Liver Transplant of Zhongshan Hospital, Liver 
Cancer Institute of Fudan University, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, China. 
ke.aiwu@zs-hospital.sh.cn.
(6)Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Cancer Invasion of Chinese Ministry, 
Department of Liver Surgery and Liver Transplant of Zhongshan Hospital, Liver 
Cancer Institute of Fudan University, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, China. 
shi.guoming@zs-hospital.sh.cn.

Recent reports show that B7-H4 is highly expressed in a variety of tumor cells, 
functions as a negative regulator of T cells and then promotes tumor 
progression. However, its expression and role in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma 
(ICC) remain unclear. In present study, B7-H4 expression in ICC and peritumoral 
tissues was determined at the level of mRNA and protein, and its bioactivity in 
ICC cells was studied after modification of B7-H4 expression. Then, the 
mechanism related to tumor progression induced by B7-H4 expression in ICC cells 
was explored. Finally, clinical significance of B7-H4 expression in ICC patients 
was further analyzed. The results showed that B7-H4 expression in ICC was much 
higher than that in peritumoral tissues at the level of both mRNA and protein. 
The high level of B7-H4 in ICC cells induced epithelial-to-mesenchymal 
transitions and promoted invasion and metastasis of tumor cells through 
activation of ERK1/2 signaling. The elevated B7-H4 expression was associated 
with the downregulated Bax, upregulated Bcl-2 expression, and activation of 
caspase-3. Clinically, high B7-H4 expression in tumor samples was significantly 
related to malignant phenotype, such as lymph node metastasis, high tumor stage, 
and poor differentiation. ICC patients with high expression of B7-H4 had shorter 
overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival. Moreover, the B7-H4 expression 
was an independent prognostic factor for predicting OS and tumor recurrence of 
ICC patients after operation. In conclusion, high expression of B7-H4 promotes 
tumor progression of ICC and may be a novel therapeutic target for ICC patients.

DOI: 10.1038/s41419-017-0015-6
PMCID: PMC5870586
PMID: 29235470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
financial interest.


270. Onco Targets Ther. 2017 Dec 1;10:5745-5754. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S148182. 
eCollection 2017.

Advances in T-cell checkpoint immunotherapy for head and neck squamous cell 
carcinoma.

Qi X(#)(1)(2), Jia B(#)(3), Zhao X(1), Yu D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, The Second Hospital, 
Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Beijing Tongren Hospital, 
Capital Medical University.
(3)Department of Thoracic Medical Oncology, Peking University Cancer Hospital 
and Institute, Beijing People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) has been found to be a complex 
group of malignancies characterized by their profound immunosuppression and high 
aggressiveness. In most cases of advanced HNSCC, treatment fails to obtain total 
cancer cure. Efforts are needed to develop new therapeutic approaches to improve 
HNSCC outcomes. In this light, T-cells "immune checkpoint" has attracted much 
attention in cancer immunotherapy. It has been broadly accepted that inhibitory 
T-cell immune checkpoints contribute to tumor immune escape through negative 
immune regulatory signals (cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 [CTLA-4], 
programmed cell death 1 [PD-1], B7-H3, and B7-H4, etc). Current data suggest 
that PD-1 and CTLA-4 receptors can inhibit T-cell receptors and T-cell 
proliferation. Blockade of PD-1/PD-L1 and/or CTLA-4/CD28 pathways has shown 
promising tumor outcomes in clinical trials for advanced solid tumors like 
melanoma, renal cell cancer, and non-small cell lung cancer. The present review 
attempts to explore what is known about PD-1/PD-L1 and CTLA-4/CD28 pathways with 
a focus on HNSCC. We further discuss how these pathways can be manipulated with 
therapeutic intent.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S148182
PMCID: PMC5716310
PMID: 29238207

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


271. Front Immunol. 2017 Dec 11;8:1765. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.01765.
eCollection  2017.

Immunosuppressive Effect of B7-H4 Pathway in a Murine Systemic Lupus 
Erythematosus Model.

Xiao ZX(1)(2), Zheng X(2), Hu L(2), Wang J(3), Olsen N(3), Zheng SG(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Third Hospital at Sun Yat-sen University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)Laboratory of Immunotherapy, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Division of Rheumatology, Milton S. Hershey Medical Center at Penn State 
University, Hershey, PA, United States.

B7-H4, one of the co-stimulatory molecules of the B7 family, has been shown to 
play an important role in negatively regulating the adaptive immune response by 
inhibiting the proliferation, activation, and cytokine production of T cells. In 
this study, we investigate the role of B7-H4 in development of systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE). We investigated a murine model of SLE using transfer of 
bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs) that were incubated with activated 
syngeneic lymphocyte-derived DNA. The recipient mouse produced anti-ds-DNA 
antibodies as well as displayed splenomegaly and lymphadenopathy as shown by 
significantly increased weights, and the kidneys showed lupus-like pathological 
changes include urine protein and glomerulonephritis with hyperplasia in 
glomeruli and increased mesangial cells and vasculitis with perivascular cell 
infiltration, glomerular deposition of IgG and complement C3. We showed that 
B7-H4 deficiency in BMDCs could cause greater production of anti-ds-DNA 
antibodies in transferred mice, and the lymph tissue swelling and the kidney 
lesions were also exacerbated with B7-H4 deficiency. Treatment with a B7-H4 
antagonist antibody also aggravated the lupus model. Conversely, B7-H4 Ig 
alleviated the lupus manifestations. Therefore, we conclude that B7-H4 is a 
negative check point for the development of SLE in this murine model. These 
results suggest that this approach may have a clinical potential in treating 
human SLE.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2017.01765
PMCID: PMC5732181
PMID: 29321778


272. Oncol Res. 2018 Sep 14;26(8):1267-1274. doi:
10.3727/096504018X15172227703244.  Epub 2018 Feb 1.

B7-Homolog 4 Promotes Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition and Invasion of Bladder 
Cancer Cells via Activation of Nuclear Factor-κB.

Wu H(1), Wang X(1), Mo N(1), Zhang L(1), Yuan X(1), Lü Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Wujin Hospital, Affiliated to Jiangsu University, 
Changzhou, P.R. China.

B7-homolog 4 (B7-H4), a member of the B7 family of costimulatory molecules, has 
been reported to be upregulated in urothelial cell carcinoma. This study was 
conducted to explore the biological role of B7-H4 in the aggressiveness of 
bladder cancer and the associated molecular mechanism. We found that the mRNA 
and protein levels of B7-H4 were significantly greater in bladder cancer cell 
lines than in SV-HUC-1 (normal human urothelial cells). Overexpression of B7-H4 
significantly promoted bladder cancer cell migration and invasion, whereas 
knockdown of B7-H4 exerted an opposite effect. However, the growth of bladder 
cancer cells was not altered by B7-H4 overexpression or knockdown. 
Overexpression of B7-H4 promoted epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), as 
evidenced by decreased E-cadherin and increased vimentin expression. The EMT 
inducers Twist1 and Snail were upregulated by B7-H4 overexpression and 
downregulated by B7-H4 silencing. Mechanistically, overexpression of B7-H4 
induced the activation of NF-κB signaling. Pharmacological inhibition of NF-κB 
partially prevented B7-H4-mediated bladder cancer cell invasion. Taken together, 
B7-H4/NF-κB signaling is involved in the EMT and invasion of bladder cancer 
cells and represents a new candidate target for the treatment of bladder cancer.

DOI: 10.3727/096504018X15172227703244
PMCID: PMC7844705
PMID: 29391086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Int J Oncol. 2018 Apr;52(4):1267-1276. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2018.4274. Epub 2018
Feb  13.

Silencing of B7-H4 suppresses the tumorigenicity of the MGC-803 human gastric 
cancer cell line and promotes cell apoptosis via the mitochondrial signaling 
pathway.

Zhou D(1), Zhou Y(1), Li C(1), Yang L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310003, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Oncology, The Affiliated Dongnan Hospital of Xiamen University, 
Zhangzhou, Fujian 363000, P.R. China.

B7-H4 is a transmembrane protein which is a member of the B7 superfamily. It is 
overexpressed in various types of cancer, including gastric cancer. However, the 
effects of B7-H4 on the tumorigenicity of gastric cancer and the underlying 
mechanisms have not yet been fully explored. Thus, the aim of this study was to 
examine the effects of B7-H4 on the tumorigenicity of gastric cancer cells and 
to elucidate the underlying mechanisms. For this purpose, B7-H4 expression in 
gastric cancer tissues was detected by immunohistochemical staining. The effects 
of B7-H4 on the biological behavior of the MGC-803 human gastric cancer cell 
line were examined by Cell Counting kit-8 (CCK-8) assay, cell cycle analysis, 
wound healing assay, Annexin V/propidium iodide staining and terminal 
deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay. Moreover, the 
expression levels of apoptotic markers, such as cleaved caspase‑3, cleaved 
caspase‑9, Bcl-2 and Bax were examined by western blot analysis. 
Immunohistochemical staining revealed that a high expression of B7-H4 was found 
in about 41.8% of tissues obtained from patients with gastric cancer. 
Comparative analysis revealed that B7-H4 expression significantly correlated 
with lymph node metastasis and the TNM stage. The results of CCK-8 assay, cell 
cycle analysis, wound healing assay, Annexin V/propidium iodide staining assay 
and TUNEL assay all demonstrated that the silencing of B7-H4 by small 
interfering RNA decreased cell proliferation, suppressed cell motility, and 
induced cell cycle arrest and the apoptosis of MGC-803 human gastric cancer 
cells. Furthermore, the results of western blot analysis indicated that the 
downregulation of B7-H4 induced the apoptosis of the MGC-803 cells via the 
mitochondrial signaling pathway through the activation of caspase‑3 and 
caspase‑9, and by altering the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio in a manner that favored 
apoptosis. Based on the findings on human gastric cancer cell line MGC-803, the 
findings of this study suggested that B7-H4 may have the potential to be a 
valuable prognostic marker and a target for individualized therapies for gastric 
cancer. However, further investigations are required in order to confirm our 
findings on a larger scale.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2018.4274
PMID: 29436630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. J Dent Res. 2018 Jul;97(7):787-794. doi: 10.1177/0022034518758604. Epub 2018
Feb  27.

CD317 Signature in Head and Neck Cancer Indicates Poor Prognosis.

Yang LL(1), Wu L(1), Yu GT(1), Zhang WF(2), Liu B(2), Sun ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)2 Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

Targeted therapy using monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) has emerged as a widely used 
form of immunotherapy in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). 
Membrane-associated glycoprotein CD317 has been preferentially overexpressed by 
multiple myeloma cells, and its humanized mAb has been previously used in 
clinical trials. However, overexpression of CD317 in HNSCC and its correlation 
with tumor immunity is still uncertain. Here, the immunoreactivity of CD317 was 
detected in human HNSCC tissue microarrays, which contained 43 oral mucosa 
samples, 48 dysplasia samples, and 165 primary HNSCC. We found that CD317 
expression was up-regulated in HNSCC tumor cells, and the CD317 expression level 
was independent of the histological grade, tumor size, and lymph node 
metastasis. Moreover, Kaplan-Meier survival curve analysis showed that patients 
with high expression of CD317 had a poor prognosis compared with patients with 
low expression. Furthermore, CD317 overexpression in HNSCC was correlated with 
immune checkpoint molecules PD-L1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 and tumor-associated 
macrophage markers (CD68 and CD163). We also observed that CD317 was 
overexpressed in immunocompetent mouse HNSCC tissue compared with normal tissue. 
Taken together, our findings demonstrate that CD317 overexpression indicates 
poor prognosis and is correlated with immune-related components in this patient 
cohort. CD317 may serve as a potential target for effective immunotherapy of 
HNSCC.

DOI: 10.1177/0022034518758604
PMID: 29486141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. J Thorac Oncol. 2018 Jun;13(6):779-791. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2018.03.002.
Epub  2018 Mar 8.

Immunohistochemical and Image Analysis-Based Study Shows That Several Immune 
Checkpoints are Co-expressed in Non-Small Cell Lung Carcinoma Tumors.

Parra ER(1), Villalobos P(1), Zhang J(2), Behrens C(3), Mino B(1), Swisher S(4), 
Sepesi B(4), Weissferdt A(5), Kalhor N(5), Heymach JV(3), Moran C(5), Zhang 
J(3), Lee J(2), Rodriguez-Canales J(1), Gibbons D(6), Wistuba II(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(2)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(3)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(4)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(5)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas.
(6)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas; Department of Molecular and 
Cellular Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, 
Texas.
(7)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas; Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck 
Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, 
Texas. Electronic address: iiwistuba@mdanderson.org.

INTRODUCTION: The understanding of immune checkpoint molecules' co-expression in 
non-small cell lung carcinoma (NCLC) is important to potentially design 
combinatorial immunotherapy approaches.
METHODS: We studied 225 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tumor tissues from 
stage I-III NCLCs - 142 adenocarcinomas (ADCs) and 83 squamous cell carcinomas 
(SCCs) - placed in tissue microarrays. Nine immune checkpoint markers were 
evaluated; four (programmed death ligand 1 [PD-L1], B7-H3, B7-H4, and 
indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 [IDO-1]) expressed predominantly in malignant 
cells (MCs) and five (inducible T cell costimulator, V-set immunoregulatory 
receptor, T-cell immunoglobulin mucin family member 3, lymphocyte activating 3, 
and OX40) expressed mostly in stromal tumor-associated inflammatory cells 
(TAICs). All markers were examined using a quantitative image analysis and 
correlated with clinicopathologic features, TAICs, and molecular 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Using above the median value as positive expression in MCs and high 
density of TAICs expressing those markers, we identified higher expression of 
immune checkpoints in SCC than ADC. Common simultaneous expression by MCs was 
PD-L1 + B7-H3 + IDO-1 in ADC and PD-L1 + B7-H3, or B7-H3 + B7-H4, in SCC. TAICs 
expressing checkpoint were significantly higher in current smokers than in never 
smokers. Almost all the immune checkpoint markers showed positive correlation 
with TAICs expressing inflammatory cell markers. KRAS-mutant ADC specimens 
showed higher expression of PD-L1 in MCs and of B7-H3, T-cell immunoglobulin 
mucin family member 3, and IDO-1 in TAICs than wild type. Kaplan-Meier survival 
curves showed worse prognosis in ADC patients with higher B7-H4 expression by 
MCs.
CONCLUSIONS: We found frequent immunohistochemical co-expression of immune 
checkpoints in surgically resected NCLC tumors and correlated with tumor 
histology, smoking history, tumor size, and the density of inflammatory cells 
and tumor mutational status.

Copyright © 2018 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2018.03.002
PMID: 29526824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Mar;97(12):e0088. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000010088.

The prognostic value of B7-H4 in pancreatic cancer: Systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Chen X(1), Tao L, Yuan C, Xiu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, 
China.

BACKGROUND: There were many reports suggesting that different kinds of tumors 
can express B7-H4; however, the prognostic value in cancer was still unclearly. 
Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis to investigate the relationship between 
overexpression of B7-H4 with the prognostic value in pancreatic cancer patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Pubmed, Embase, Cochrane Library, Ovid, Web of 
Science, and Chinese research database (including CBM, CNKI, and WAN FANG) were 
searched for related literature published until October 12, 2017. The pooled 
odds ratios (ORs) and/or pooled hazard ratios (HRs) for clinical pathological 
factors and overall survival (OS) were calculated and analyzed using Stata 
software. To assess whether an individual study had an impact on the result, 
sensitivity analysis was performed for all included individual studies using the 
fixed-effects model. Publication bias was evaluated using Egger's and Begg's 
tests.
RESULTS: Data from 6 observational studies including 442 patients were 
summarized in this meta-analysis, and each study was eligible for inclusion 
based on included and exclude criteria. The pooled results indicated that the 
B7-H4 overexpression could predict the presentation of lymph node metastasis 
(OR = 3.94, 95% CI: 1.22-12.66, P = .022), advanced TNM stage (T = the extent of 
the primary tumor, N = regional lymph nodes, M = distant metastases) (III+IV vs 
I+II; OR = 7.63, 95% CI: 2.46-23.66, P < .001), and the poor OS (HR = 3.00, 
95%CI = 2.20-4.10, P < .001) in PC patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reveals that high expression of B7-H4 is an unfavorable 
prognostic factor for patients with pancreatic cancer. These results may guide 
the clinical management of this patient population.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000010088
PMCID: PMC5895337
PMID: 29561406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


277. Oncotarget. 2018 Feb 26;9(16):13100. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.24571.
eCollection  2018 Feb 27.

Correction: B7-H4 as an independent prognostic indicator of cancer patients: a 
meta-analysis.

Meng Z(#)(1), Wang F(#)(1), Zhang Y(1), Li S(1), Wu H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pancreatic Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430022, China.
(#)Contributed equally

Erratum for
    Oncotarget. 2017 Jun 19;8(40):68825-68836.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.18566.].

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.24571
PMCID: PMC5849199
PMID: 29569655


278. Nat Microbiol. 2018 Apr;3(4):503-513. doi: 10.1038/s41564-018-0131-9. Epub
2018  Mar 27.

Human cytomegalovirus reprogrammes haematopoietic progenitor cells into 
immunosuppressive monocytes to achieve latency.

Zhu D(1), Pan C(1), Sheng J(2), Liang H(1)(3), Bian Z(1)(3), Liu Y(3), Trang 
P(2)(4), Wu J(5), Liu F(6), Zhang CY(7), Zen K(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, Nanjing Advanced 
Institute for Life Sciences, Nanjing University School of Life Sciences, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(2)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(3)Center for Inflammation, Infection Diseases and Immunology, Georgia State 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, College of Life Science and Technology, Jinan 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Virology, Wuhan University School of Life Sciences, 
Wuhan, Hubei, China. jwu@whu.edu.cn.
(6)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA. 
liu_fy@berkeley.edu.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, Nanjing Advanced 
Institute for Life Sciences, Nanjing University School of Life Sciences, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. cyzhang@nju.edu.cn.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, Nanjing Advanced 
Institute for Life Sciences, Nanjing University School of Life Sciences, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. kzen@nju.edu.cn.
(9)Center for Inflammation, Infection Diseases and Immunology, Georgia State 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA. kzen@nju.edu.cn.

Comment in
    Nat Microbiol. 2018 Apr;3(4):398-399.

The precise cell type hosting latent human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) remains 
elusive. Here, we report that HCMV reprogrammes human haematopoietic progenitor 
cells (HPCs) into a unique monocyte subset to achieve latency. Unlike 
conventional monocytes, this monocyte subset possesses higher levels of B7-H4, 
IL-10 and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), a longer lifespan and strong 
immunosuppressive capacity. Cell sorting of peripheral blood from latently 
infected human donors confirms that only this monocyte subset, representing less 
than 0.1% of peripheral mononuclear cells, is HCMV genome-positive but 
immediate-early-negative. Mechanistic studies demonstrate that HCMV promotes the 
differentiation of HPCs into this monocyte subset by activating cellular signal 
transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3). In turn, this monocyte 
subset generates a high level of nitric oxide (NO) to silence HCMV 
immediate-early transcription and promote viral latency. By contrast, the 
US28-knockout HCMV mutant, which is incapable of activating STAT3, fails to 
reprogramme the HPCs and achieve latency. Our findings reveal that via 
activating the STAT3-iNOS-NO axis, HCMV differentiates human HPCs into a 
longevous, immunosuppressive monocyte subset for viral latency.

DOI: 10.1038/s41564-018-0131-9
PMCID: PMC6537872
PMID: 29588542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests The authors declare no 
competing interests.


279. Immunity. 2018 Apr 17;48(4):773-786.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2018.03.018.
Epub  2018 Apr 3.

Co-inhibitory Molecule B7 Superfamily Member 1 Expressed by Tumor-Infiltrating 
Myeloid Cells Induces Dysfunction of Anti-tumor CD8(+) T Cells.

Li J(1), Lee Y(2), Li Y(3), Jiang Y(1), Lu H(1), Zang W(1), Zhao X(1), Liu L(4), 
Chen Y(3), Tan H(4), Yang Z(4), Zhang MQ(5), Mak TW(6), Ni L(1), Dong C(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Immunology and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 
100084, China.
(2)Departments of Immunology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77054, USA.
(3)MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics; Bioinformatics Division and Center for 
Synthetic & Systems Biology, TNLIST; School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing 100084, China.
(4)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing 
100029, China.
(5)MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics; Bioinformatics Division and Center for 
Synthetic & Systems Biology, TNLIST; School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing 100084, China; Department of Biological Sciences, Center for Systems 
Biology, The University of Texas, Dallas, TX 75080, USA.
(6)The Campbell Family Cancer Research Institute and University Health Network, 
Toronto, ON M5G 2C1, Canada.
(7)Institute for Immunology and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, Beijing 
100084, China; Beijing Key Lab for Immunological Research on Chronic Diseases, 
Beijing 100084, China. Electronic address: chendong@tsinghua.edu.cn.

Comment in
    Immunity. 2018 Apr 17;48(4):621-623.

The molecular mechanisms whereby CD8+ T cells become "exhausted" in the tumor 
microenvironment remain unclear. Programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) is 
upregulated on tumor cells and PD-1-PD-L1 blockade has significant efficacy in 
human tumors; however, most patients do not respond, suggesting additional 
mechanisms underlying T cell exhaustion. B7 superfamily member 1 (B7S1), also 
called B7-H4, B7x, or VTCN1, negatively regulates T cell activation. Here we 
show increased B7S1 expression on myeloid cells from human hepatocellular 
carcinoma correlated with CD8+ T cell dysfunction. B7S1 inhibition suppressed 
development of murine tumors. Putative B7S1 receptor was co-expressed with PD-1 
but not T cell immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing-3 (Tim-3) at an 
activated state of early tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells, and B7S1 promoted 
T cell exhaustion, possibly through Eomes overexpression. Combinatorial blockade 
of B7S1 and PD-1 synergistically enhanced anti-tumor immune responses. 
Collectively, B7S1 initiates dysfunction of tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells and 
may be targeted for cancer immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2018.03.018
PMID: 29625896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Int Immunopharmacol. 2018 Jun;59:318-327. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2018.03.020.
 Epub 2018 Apr 18.

B7-H6 expression is induced by lipopolysaccharide and facilitates cancer 
invasion and metastasis in human gliomas.

Che F(1), Xie X(2), Wang L(2), Su Q(2), Jia F(2), Ye Y(3), Zang L(2), Wang J(4), 
Li H(2), Quan Y(2), You C(2), Yin J(2), Wang Z(2), Li G(2), Du Y(5), Wang L(6).

Author information:
(1)Central Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, Linyi, 
Shandong Province, China; Department of Neurology, Shandong Provincial Hospital 
affiliated, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong Province, China; Key Laboratory 
of Neurophysiology, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, Linyi, 
Shandong Province, China.
(2)Central Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, Linyi, 
Shandong Province, China.
(3)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, First Affiliated 
Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Wuhan No.1 Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science 
and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Shandong Provincial Hospital affiliated, Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong Province, China.
(6)Central Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, Shandong University, Linyi, 
Shandong Province, China; Department of Hematology, Linyi People's Hospital, 
Shandong University, Linyi, Shandong Province, China. Electronic address: 
wanglj730@163.com.

Although great progress has been made in treatment regimens, gliomas are still 
incurable and the 5-year survival remains poor. Studies focusing on molecules 
that regulate tumorigenesis or tumor immunity may provide potential therapeutic 
strategies for patients with glioma. B7-H6 is selectively expressed in tumor 
cells and plays vital roles in host immune responses. In this study, we 
demonstrated that B7-H6 was expressed in glioma cell lines, including CRT, U251, 
SHG-44, SF-295, TG-905 and U373, and tumor tissues isolated from glioma 
patients. Moreover, the expression levels of B7-H6 were significantly correlated 
with glioma grade. Previous studies reported that inflammatory mediators and 
cytokines induced the expression of B7 family members including programmed 
death-ligand 1, B7-H2 and B7-H4. Therefore, we explored the regulation of B7-H6 
expression in gliomas and showed that lipopolysaccharide induced the expression 
of B7-H6 in glioma cells. To further analyze the roles of B7-H6 in gliomas, the 
expression of B7-H6 in glioma cells was knocked down. The results of cell 
counting kit-8, colony formation, wound healing, and transwell migration and 
invasion assays demonstrated that the proliferation, migration and invasion of 
glioma cells were inhibited after knocking down B7-H6. To elucidate the specific 
mechanisms of B7-H6 function in cancer progression, we examined the expression 
levels of proteins involved in cell apoptosis, migration and invasion. We 
demonstrated that the expression levels of E-cadherin and Bcl-2 associated X 
protein increased, and the expression levels of vimentin, N-cadherin, matrix 
metalloproteinase-2, matrix metalloproteinase-9 and survivin decreased after 
knocking down B7-H6. In conclusion, B7-H6 plays important roles in glioma, and 
targeting B7-H6 may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for glioma patients.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2018.03.020
PMID: 29679856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Am J Cancer Res. 2018 Apr 1;8(4):699-707. eCollection 2018.

Detection of early-stage extrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma in patients with 
biliary strictures by soluble B7-H4 in the bile.

Ke W(1), Zeng L(1), Hu Y(1), Chen S(1), Tian M(1), Hu Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology Wuhan 430022, Hubei Province, 
China.

Increasing evidence has demonstrated that serum soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) is a 
useful tumour marker for cancer diagnosis and prognosis evaluation. Whether 
sB7-H4 is expressed in the bile of cholangiocarcinoma (CC) and is related to the 
progression of CC need to be explored. Bile sB7-H4 was obtained through 
endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) from 213 patients with 
biliary strictures and detected was detected by a B7-H4 ELISA kit. Diagnostic 
value was compared among bile sB7-H4, CA19-9, CA12-5, CEA and ERCP-based 
cytological/tissue examination. Additionally, the correlations between the bile 
sB7-H4 concentration and the clinical characteristics of early-stage 
cholangiocarcinoma (ESCC) were studied. The bile sB7-H4 levels of patients with 
ESCC were significantly higher than in patients with benign biliary strictures 
(BBS) (P<0.001). The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves of CA19-9, 
CA12-5 and CEA were 0.713, 0.554 and 0.451, respectively, were significantly 
lower than the ROC curves of bile sB7-H4 (0.837), the sensitivity of ERCP-based 
cytological/tissue examination was 57.5% and 68.4%, which was lower than that of 
bile sB7-H4 (81.7%) at cut-off value. A high level of bile sB7-H4 in patients 
with ESCC was found to be correlated with vascular invasion (P<0.001), lymph 
node metastasis (P<0.001) and TNM stage (P=0.018), respectively. The overall 
survival rate (OS) of ESCC patients in the high sB7-H4 group was significantly 
lower than the OS of patients in the low sB7-H4 group (P=0.009). Bile sB7-H4 
could serve as a valuable biomarker for patients with ESCC and high levels of 
bile sB7-H4 correlate with poor clinical outcomes.

PMCID: PMC5934559
PMID: 29736314

Conflict of interest statement: None.


282. Am J Clin Pathol. 2018 May 31;150(1):74-83. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/aqy029.

Overexpression of Golgi Phosphoprotein 2 Is Associated With Poor Prognosis in 
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Li H(1), Yang LL(1), Xiao Y(1), Deng WW(1), Chen L(1), Wu L(1), Zhang WF(2), Sun 
ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) and Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, 
School and Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Head Neck Surgery, School & Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study were to investigate the relationship between 
Golgi phosphoprotein 2 (GOLPH2) and oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and 
explore the clinical significance of GOLPH2 in OSCC.
METHODS: Tissue microarrays from human OSCC samples were stained for GOLPH2 
expression and clinicopathologic features. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to 
compare the survival of patients with high GOLPH2 expression and patients with 
low GOLPH2 expression.
RESULTS: We found GOLPH2 is highly expressed in OSCC tissue, and the GOLPH2 
expression in metastatic lymph nodes is higher than in tumor tissue. Our data 
indicate that patients with higher GOLPH2 expression have poor overall survival 
compared with those with lower GOLPH2 expression. This study demonstrated that 
GOLPH2 was associated with CD44, SOX2, Slug, B7-H3, B7-H4, TIM3, and VISTA.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest GOLPH2 is a potential marker for estimating 
the patient's prognosis and may be a target for molecular-targeted therapy 
against OSCC.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/aqy029
PMID: 29788173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2018 Sep;80(3):e12988. doi: 10.1111/aji.12988. Epub
2018  May 24.

Soluble B7-H4 blood serum levels are elevated in women at high risk for 
preeclampsia in the first trimester, as well as in patients with confirmed 
preeclampsia.

Mach P(1), Nolte-Boenigk L(1), Droste L(1), Fox L(1), Frank M(2), Schmidt B(2), 
Herse F(3)(4), Verlohren S(5), Wicherek L(6), Iannaccone A(1), Birdir C(1)(7), 
Andrikos D(1), Kimmig R(1), Gellhaus A(1), Köninger A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital of Essen, Essen, 
Germany.
(2)Institute for Medical Informatics, Biometry and Epidemiology, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(3)Charité Medical Faculty, Experimental and Clinical Research Center, a joint 
cooperation between the Max Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine in the 
Helmholtz Association, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Berlin Institute of Health (BIH), Berlin, Germany.
(5)Department of Obstetrics, Charité University Medicine, Berlin, Germany.
(6)Department of Gynecology and Oncology and Gynecological Nursing, Ludwik 
Rydygier Collegium Medicum, Nicolaus Copernicus University, Bydgoszcz, Poland.
(7)Medical Faculty, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital 
Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.

PROBLEM: B7-H4 negatively regulates T-cell-mediated immunity and might play an 
important role in preeclampsia (PE). Here, we have investigated the association 
between PE and maternal soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) serum levels and B7-H4 mRNA 
expression in the placenta.
METHOD OF STUDY: Maternal serum levels of sB7-H4 were determined by 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in women between 11 and 13 weeks' gestation 
with elevated risk for PE (n = 48) and women without elevated risk for PE 
(n = 47). In the third trimester, sB7-H4 serum levels (n = 166) and B7-H4 mRNA 
expression in the placenta (n = 54) were determined in women with early-onset 
PE, late-onset PE, fetal growth restriction (FGR), and in healthy controls.
RESULTS: In the first trimester, significant higher levels of sB7-H4 were 
detected in women at elevated risk for PE compared to women without risk for PE 
(P < .0001). sB7-H4 has some predictive ability to identify cases with an 
elevated risk of developing PE with area under the curve (AUC) value of 0.88 
(95% CI 0.8-0.94). Using a specificity of 90.0% led to a sensitivity of 47.9% 
and a threshold of 3.63 ng/mL. In the third trimester, the highest serum levels 
of sB7-H4 and B7-H4 mRNA expression in the placenta were observed in early-onset 
PE. Significant higher serum levels of sB7-H4 and B7-H4 mRNA expression in the 
placenta were observed in women with early-onset PE (P = .01 and P = .006, 
respectively) and late-onset PE (P = .03 and P = .004, respectively) compared to 
healthy controls, but not compared to FGR.
CONCLUSION: sB7-H4 is involved in the regulation of immune tolerance in women 
with PE in the third trimester. In the first trimester of pregnancy, sB7-H4 
might serve as a predictive immunological biomarker for women who are at 
elevated risk of developing PE.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aji.12988
PMID: 29797540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Mol Histol. 2018 Aug;49(4):389-398. doi: 10.1007/s10735-018-9779-y. Epub
2018  May 30.

Over-expression of IQGAP1 indicates poor prognosis in head and neck squamous 
cell carcinoma.

Wu CC(1), Li H(1), Xiao Y(1), Yang LL(1), Chen L(1), Deng WW(1), Wu L(1), Zhang 
WF(1)(2), Sun ZJ(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, 237 Luoyu Road, Wuhan, 430079, Hubei Province, 
China.
(3)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China. sunzj@whu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, 237 Luoyu Road, Wuhan, 430079, Hubei Province, 
China. sunzj@whu.edu.cn.

IQ-domain GTPase-activating protein 1 (IQGAP1) is associated with the 
development and progression of many human cancers. We aimed to investigate the 
expression and clinicopathological significances of IQGAP1 in head and neck 
squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). In this study, immunohistochemical staining of 
IQGAP1, co-inhibitory immune checkpoint molecules and macrophage markers were 
performed in human HNSCC samples to analyze the expression and correlation with 
clinicopathological characteristics. Immunoreactivity of IQGAP1 was also 
detected in immunocompetent mouse HNSCC tissue. We found that IQGAP1 expression 
level was significantly increased in human HNSCC compared with dysplasia and 
normal mucosa, and the expression of IQGAP1 in HNSCC was positively associated 
with advanced lymph node status. Besides, our data indicated that patients with 
higher IQGAP1 expression exhibited poor overall survival compared with patients 
with lower IQGAP1 expression. Furthermore, this study demonstrated that IQGAP1 
expression was positively associated with TIM3, Galectin-9 (TIM3 ligand), B7H4, 
macrophage markers CD68 and CD163. In conclusion, these findings suggest that 
over-expression of IQGAP1 in human HNSCC may indicate poor prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10735-018-9779-y
PMID: 29846864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Biomark Med. 2018 Jul;12(7):759-769. doi: 10.2217/bmm-2017-0443. Epub 2018
May  30.

Expression and phosphorylation of Stathmin 1 indicate poor survival in head and 
neck squamous cell carcinoma and associate with immune suppression.

Wu H(1), Deng WW(1), Yang LL(1), Zhang WF(1)(2), Sun ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, PR China.
(2)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Head Neck Surgery, School & Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, PR China.

AIM: Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of Stathmin 1 and 
Serine 38 phospho-Stathmin 1 (p-Stathmin 1S38) in head and neck squamous cell 
carcinoma (HNSCC) and research its correlation with clinical parameters, 
survival and expression of immune checkpoint molecules.
RESULTS: Stathmin 1 and p-Stathmin 1S38 overexpression in primary HNSCC is 
associated with poor overall survival. Stathmin 1 expression is related to tumor 
size, category and lymph node status. Stathmin 1 expression correlates with 
PD-L1, TIM3, VISTA, B7-H3, B7-H4, LAG-3 and p-STAT3 expression in HNSCC. 
P-Stathmin 1S38 expression correlates with PD-L1, VISTA, B7-H4, LAG-3 and 
p-STAT3 in HNSCC.
CONCLUSION: We found expression of Stathmin 1 and p-Stathmin 1S38 indicates poor 
survival in HNSCC and may be associated with immune suppression.

DOI: 10.2217/bmm-2017-0443
PMID: 29847156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Hum Pathol. 2018 Oct;80:152-162. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2018.05.021. Epub
2018  Jun 6.

B7H4 is associated with stemness and cancer progression in esophageal squamous 
cell carcinoma.

Piao L(1), Yang Z(2), Jin J(3), Ni W(4), Qi W(5), Xuan Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Affiliated Hospital of Yanbian University, Yanji 
133002, Jilin Province, P.R. China. Electronic address: plz1978@126.com.
(2)Key Laboratory of Natural Resources of the Changbai Mountain and Functional 
Molecules, Ministry of Education, Yanbian University, Yanji 133002, Jilin 
Province, P.R. China; Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji 133002, Jilin Province, P.R. China. Electronic address: 
945986163@qq.com.
(3)Department of Oncology, Shenyang Fifth People Hospital, Shenyang 110023, 
Jilin Province, P.R. China. Electronic address: jjj126hz@163.com.
(4)Key Laboratory of Natural Resources of the Changbai Mountain and Functional 
Molecules, Ministry of Education, Yanbian University, Yanji 133002, Jilin 
Province, P.R. China; Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji 133002, Jilin Province, P.R. China. Electronic address: 
939819731@qq.com.
(5)Key Laboratory of Natural Resources of the Changbai Mountain and Functional 
Molecules, Ministry of Education, Yanbian University, Yanji 133002, Jilin 
Province, P.R. China; Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji 133002, Jilin Province, P.R. China. Electronic address: 
767623287@qq.com.
(6)Key Laboratory of Natural Resources of the Changbai Mountain and Functional 
Molecules, Ministry of Education, Yanbian University, Yanji 133002, Jilin 
Province, P.R. China; Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji 133002, Jilin Province, P.R. China. Electronic address: 
xuanyh1@ybu.edu.cn.

B7H4 is overexpressed in human cancers and often correlates with poor clinical 
outcome. There is a lack of data on the role of B7H4 as a cancer stem cell (CSC) 
regulator in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and its expression levels 
compared to other stemness genes in ESCC. In this study, we have assessed the 
expression of B7H4 and cancer stemness proteins in 156 paraffin-embedded ESCC 
tissue samples using immunohistochemistry as well as in ESCC cell lines using 
Western blotting and immunofluorescence imaging. The correlation of B7H4 
expression with clinicopathological parameters, cell cycle regulating genes, and 
PI3K/Akt/NF-κB signaling genes was investigated. The expression of B7H4 in ESCC 
tissue was correlated with the primary tumor (pT) stage, stromal activity, and 
the expression of CD68 and HIF-1α. However, B7H4 expression was negatively 
associated with CD8+ T cell infiltration in ESCC tissues. Moreover, B7H4 was 
found to be strongly linked to prognostic factors leading to poor clinical 
outcome. B7H4-expressing cancer cells also expressed known cancer stemness 
proteins (Sox9, LSD1, Oct4, and LGR5). Moreover, B7H4, Sox9, LSD1, Oct4, and 
LGR5 were highly expressed in more poorly differentiated ESCC cell lines. 
Notably, B7H4 expression was positively associated with the expression of cell 
cycle regulators such as cyclin D1, p27, and PI3K/Akt/NFκB signaling proteins. 
B7H4 could be a novel cancer stem cell marker for the prognostic evaluation of 
ESCC patients as well as a potential therapeutic target against ESCC.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2018.05.021
PMID: 29885401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Immunol. 2018 Aug 1;201(3):897-907. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1700811. Epub
2018  Jun 13.

B7-H4 Modulates Regulatory CD4(+) T Cell Induction and Function via Ligation of 
a Semaphorin 3a/Plexin A4/Neuropilin-1 Complex.

Podojil JR(1), Chiang MY(1), Ifergan I(1), Copeland R(2), Liu LN(2), Maloveste 
S(2), Langermann S(2), Liebenson D(3), Balabanov R(3), Chi H(4), Chen L(5), 
Vignali DAA(6)(7), Miller SD(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology-Immunology, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611.
(2)Amplimmune, Inc., Gaithersburg, MD 20877.
(3)Department of Neurology, Rush University, Chicago, IL 60612.
(4)Immunology Department, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN 
38105.
(5)Department of Immunobiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
CT 06510.
(6)Department of Immunology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15262; and.
(7)Tumor Microenvironment Center, University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232.
(8)Department of Microbiology-Immunology, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL 60611; s-d-miller@northwestern.edu.

The potent immune regulatory function of an agonistic B7-H4-Ig fusion protein 
(B7-H4Ig) has been demonstrated in multiple experimental autoimmune models; 
however, the identity of a functional B7-H4 receptor remained unknown. The 
biological activity of B7-H4 is associated with decreased inflammatory CD4+ T 
cell responses as supported by a correlation between B7-H4-expressing 
tumor-associated macrophages and Foxp3+ T cells within the tumor 
microenvironment. Recent data indicate that members of the semaphorin 
(Sema)/plexin/neuropilin (Nrp) family of proteins both positively and negatively 
modulate immune cell function. In this study, we show that B7-H4 binds the 
soluble Sema family member Sema3a. Additionally, B7-H4Ig-induced inhibition of 
inflammatory CD4+ T cell responses is lost in both Sema3a functional mutant mice 
and mice lacking Nrp-1 expression in Foxp3+ T cells. These findings indicate 
that B7-H4Ig binds to Sema3a, which acts as a functional bridge to stimulate an 
Nrp-1/Plexin A4 heterodimer to form a functional immunoregulatory receptor 
complex resulting in increased levels of phosphorylated PTEN and enhanced 
regulatory CD4+ T cell number and function.

Copyright © 2018 by The American Association of Immunologists, Inc.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1700811
PMCID: PMC6894186
PMID: 29898965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures The authors have no financial 
conflicts of interest.


288. J Cancer Res Ther. 2018 Jun;14(Supplement):S433-S436. doi: 
10.4103/0973-1482.177216.

Serum B7 homologous body 4 for the diagnosis of ovarian cancer in Chinese Han 
women: A meta-analysis.

Lan Z(1), Fu D(2), Xi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, West China Second Hospital, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China.
(2)Department of Medical Informatics, West China School of Medicine, Sichuan 
University, Chengdu, Sichuan 610041, China.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to investigate the clinical value of serum 
B7 homologous body 4 (B7-H4) protein detection for the diagnosis of ovarian 
cancer (OC) in Chinese Han women by pooling published data.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted in Cochrane Library, 
PubMed, EMBASE, Wanfang, and China National Knowledge Infrastructure databases. 
The bivariate model was utilized to calculate the pooled estimates. Publication 
bias was assessed by using funnel plots and Deek's test.
RESULTS: After the review, ten publications were found to meet our inclusion 
criteria. The overall diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of B7-H4 in OC were 
0.782 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.732-0.825) and 0.870 (95% CI: 
0.804-0.916), respectively. The area under summary receiver operating 
characteristic curves was 0.86 (95% CI: 0.83-0.89). No significant publication 
bias was observed in the included studies.
CONCLUSION: Serum B7-H4 detection, either alone or in combination with 
carbohydrate antigen 125, has an acceptable value in the diagnosis of OC.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.177216
PMID: 29970702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest


289. Cancer Cell Int. 2018 Jul 13;18:100. doi: 10.1186/s12935-018-0597-9.
eCollection  2018.

B7-H4 overexpression contributes to poor prognosis and drug-resistance in 
triple-negative breast cancer.

Wang L(#)(1), Yang C(2), Liu XB(3), Wang L(4), Kang FB(#)(5).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Orthopedic Oncology, the Third Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei People's Republic of China.
(2)2Department of General Surgery, the Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei People's Republic of China.
(3)3Department of Thoracic Surgery, the Fourth Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Pathology, the Fourth Hospital of Shijiazhuang, Shijiazhuang, 
China.
(5)5Department of Liver Diseases, Bethune International Peace Hospital, 
Shijiazhuang, Hebei People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The expression of the immunoregulatory protein B7-H4 has been 
reported in many types of cancer, including breast cancer. However, its role in 
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), especially its correlation with patients' 
prognosis and chemoresistance remains unclear.
METHODS: The expression of B7-H4 in TNBC tissues and cell lines were measured 
with Real-Time PCR and western blotting. 65 cases of TNBC tissue samples and 
adjacent non-tumor tissue samples were analyzed by immunochemistry to 
demonstrate the correlation between the B7-H4 expression and clinicopathological 
characteristics. In vitro studies assessed mAb MIH43 alone and in combination 
with transfecting B7-H4 siRNA on the growth of chemosensitive and chemoresistant 
TNBC cell lines by CCK-8 and apoptotic enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
(ELISA).
RESULTS: B7-H4 expression was detected positive in 59 of 65 (90.8%) different 
stage TNBC patients, especially in the samples of recurrence TNBC patients after 
receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy treatment. Survival curves showed that 
patients with B7-H4 overexpression had significantly shorter survival and 
recurrence time than those with low B7-H4 expression (p < 0.005). Univariate and 
multivariate COX regression analysis demonstrated that B7-H4 was an independent 
predictor for advanced tumor stage. The monoclonal antibody of B7-H4 has the 
potential anti-proliferative effects on inhibiting the chemoresistant TNBC cell 
lines and increasing the sensitivity of TNBC cell lines to doxorubicin, 
paclitaxel or carboplatin. RNAi-mediated silencing of B7-H4 in TNBC cells 
enhanced drug-induced apoptosis via inhibiting PTEN/PI3K/AKT pathway, whereas 
reexpression of B7-H4 in B7-H4 knockdown and low B7-H4 expressing cells 
increased the phosphorylation of PI3K and AKT along with restoration of PETN 
expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that B7-H4 is a biomarker indicative of a poor 
prognosis in TNBC patients and at least partially downregulated in 
chemoresistance via PTEN/PI3K/AKT pathway. Targeting B7-H4 might provide an 
attractive therapeutic approach specifically for TNBC patients.

DOI: 10.1186/s12935-018-0597-9
PMCID: PMC6044050
PMID: 30008617


290. PLoS One. 2018 Jul 25;13(7):e0199719. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199719. 
eCollection 2018.

Serum soluble B7-H4 is a prognostic marker for patients with non-metastatic 
clear cell renal cell carcinoma.

Azuma T(1)(2)(3), Sato Y(1), Ohno T(2), Azuma M(2), Kume H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Tokyo Metropolitan Tama Medical Center, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Molecular Immunology, Graduate School of Medical and Dental 
Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Urology, The University of Tokyo Graduate School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2018 Aug 23;13(8):e0203174.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4 is a member of the B7 family of immune-regulatory ligands and 
is considered to be a negative regulator of the immune response. We investigated 
the clinical significance of serum soluble B7-H4 in patients with non-metastatic 
clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
METHODS: We analyzed 108 patients in whom non-metastatic clear cell renal cancer 
was diagnosed at Tokyo Metropolitan Tama Medical Center between 2008 and 2013. 
We measured the serum soluble B7-H4 level using the Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbent 
Assay (ELISA) and evaluated the association between the peripheral blood 
neutrophil count and sB7-H4 as well as the utility of soluble B7-H4 as a 
prognostic biomarker for clear cell renal cancer. The Cox proportional hazards 
regression model was used to assess the PFS and OS with the soluble B7-H4 level.
RESULTS: We detected high levels of soluble B7-H4 in the sera of 56% of patients 
with non-metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma versus only 10% of healthy 
donors. Elevated soluble B7-H4 levels were associated with changes in an 
elevated peripheral blood neutrophil count. The increase of soluble B7-H4 also 
was significantly associated with poor PFS and OS. Multivariate analysis showed 
that the elevation of the soluble B7-H4 level was an independent prognostic 
factor for PFS and OS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that the association between serum soluble B7-H4 
and peripheral blood neutrophil count, as well as the evaluation of serum 
soluble B7-H4 expression is a useful tool for predicting the prognosis of 
patients with non-metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199719
PMCID: PMC6059393
PMID: 30044793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


291. Front Oncol. 2018 Jul 13;8:269. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00269. eCollection
2018.

Monitoring Immune Checkpoint Regulators as Predictive Biomarkers in 
Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Shrestha R(1)(2), Prithviraj P(3), Anaka M(4), Bridle KR(1)(2), Crawford 
DHG(1)(2), Dhungel B(1)(2), Steel JC(1)(2), Jayachandran A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.
(2)Gallipoli Medical Research Institute, Greenslopes Private Hospital, Brisbane, 
QLD, Australia.
(3)Fiona Elsey Cancer Research Institute, Ballarat, VIC, Australia.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada.

The global burden of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), one of the frequent causes 
of cancer-related deaths worldwide, is rapidly increasing partly due to the 
limited treatment options available for this disease and recurrence due to 
therapy resistance. Immune checkpoint inhibitors that are proved to be 
beneficial in the treatment of advanced melanoma and other cancer types are 
currently in clinical trials in HCC. These ongoing trials are testing the 
efficacy and safety of a few select checkpoints in HCC. Similar to observations 
in other cancers, these immune checkpoint blockade treatments as monotherapy may 
benefit only a fraction of HCC patients. Studies that assess the prevalence and 
distribution of other immune checkpoints/modulatory molecules in HCC have been 
limited. Moreover, robust predictors to identify which HCC patients will respond 
to immunotherapy are currently lacking. The objective of this study is to 
perform a comprehensive evaluation on different immune modulators as predictive 
biomarkers to monitor HCC patients at high risk for poor prognosis. We screened 
publically available HCC patient databases for the expression of previously well 
described immune checkpoint regulators and evaluated the usefulness of these 
immune modulators to predict high risk, patient overall survival and recurrence. 
We also identified the immune modulators that synergized with known immune 
evasion molecules programmed death receptor ligand-1 (PD-L1), programmed cell 
death protein-1 (PD-1), and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) 
and correlated with worse patient outcomes. We evaluated the association between 
the expression of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers and PD-L1 
in HCC patient tumors. We also examined the relationship of tumor mutational 
burden with HCC patient survival. Notably, expression of immune modulators 
B7-H4, PD-L2, TIM-3, and VISTA were independently associated with worse 
prognosis, while B7-H4, CD73, and VISTA predicted low recurrence-free survival. 
Moreover, the prognosis of patients expressing high PD-L1 with high B7-H4, 
TIM-3, VISTA, CD73, and PD-L2 expression was significantly worse. Interestingly, 
PD-L1 expression in HCC patients in the high-risk group was closely associated 
with EMT marker expression and prognosticates poor survival. In HCC patients, 
high tumor mutational burden (TMB) predicted worse patient outcomes than those 
with low TMB.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2018.00269
PMCID: PMC6053505
PMID: 30057891


292. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Aug;97(32):e11821. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000011821.

Does B7-H4 expression correlate with clinicopathologic characteristics and 
survival in ovarian cancer?: A systematic review and PRISMA-compliant 
meta-analysis.

Ye Y(1), Wang JJ, Li SL, Wang SY, Jing FH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine Emergency Department Department of 
Respiration, The First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an, 
Shaanxi, China.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have shown that B7-H4 expression is significantly 
increased in ovarian cancer. However, the role of B7-H4 expression in ovarian 
cancer remains unclear, and some studies reporting conflicting results. A 
systematic review of the literature and meta-analysis were conducted to assess 
the clinicopathologic characteristics and prognostic significance of B7-H4 in 
ovarian cancer.
METHODS: Eligible studies were searched in the PubMed, MEDLINE, Cochrane 
Library, and the China National Knowledge Infrastructure databases. The included 
studies assessed the relationship between B7-H4 expression and clinicopathologic 
features or prognosis in patients with ovarian cancer through September 2017. A 
total of 1045 patients in 10 studies were included in the meta-analysis. Stata 
software version 12.0 was used to analyze the data. We used an odds ratio (OR) 
or hazard ratio (HR) with a 95% confidence interval (CI) to assess the risk or 
hazard association.
RESULTS: B7-H4 expression in ovarian cancer patients was significantly increased 
(OR: 4.20, 95% CI: 2.85-6.18, Z = 6.91, P < .05), and heterogeneity was low 
between studies (I = 8.2%, P = .366). With respect to the clinicopathologic 
features, no relation was detected between B7-H4 expression and International 
Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetricsstages stages (OR: 0.81, 95% CI: 
0.64-1.03, Z = 1.70, P = .09), pathologic grade (OR: 0.91, 95% CI: 0.72-1.16, 
Z = 0.76, P = .45), tumor metastasis (OR: 1.25, 95% CI: 0.90-1.74, Z = 1.34, 
P = .18), or histologic type (OR: 1.17, 95% CI: 0.85-1.60, Z = 0.96, P = .34) in 
ovarian cancer. Furthermore, B7-H4 expression was significantly associated with 
a worse progression-free survival (PFS) (HR: 1.30, 95% CI: 1.17-1.45, Z = 4.79, 
P < .05).
CONCLUSION: B7-H4 expression was related to ovarian cancer, but not to patients' 
clinicopathologic characteristics. High B7-H4 expression was negatively 
correlated with survival outcome, suggesting that B7-H4 plays an essential role 
in poor prognosis in ovarian cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000011821
PMCID: PMC6133395
PMID: 30095655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


293. Exp Cell Res. 2018 Oct 1;371(1):222-230. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.08.014.
Epub  2018 Aug 9.

Negative roles of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in the microenvironment of cervical cancer.

Han S(1), Wang Y(1), Shi X(2), Zong L(1), Liu L(1), Zhang J(1), Qian Q(1), Jin 
J(1), Ma Y(1), Cui B(1), Yang X(1), Kong B(1), Zhang Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong 250012, PR China.
(2)Department of Rheumatism and Immunology, General Hospital of Tianjin Medical 
University, Tianjin 300000, PR China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong 250012, PR China. Electronic address: 
zhangyouzhong@sdu.edu.cn.

Although persistent human papilloma virus (HPV) infection exerts a crucial 
influence on cervical carcinogenesis, other factors are also involved in its 
development, such as intraepithelial lesions and cervical cancer. B7-H3 and 
B7-H4, which have been reported to be co-regulatory ligands in the B7 family, 
had been found to be overexpressed in cervical cancer and correlated with 
adverse clinicopathological features and poor prognosis in our previous studies. 
In this study, we sought to explore the effects of B7-H3 and B7-H4 on the 
cervical microenvironment. Among several immune cytokines, interleukin-10 
(IL-10) and transforming growth factor (TGF) β1 stand out as important 
immunosuppressive factors. Our studies found that IL-10 expression increased 
with pathological change levels and significantly correlated with cervical 
cancer differentiation (P < 0.05). TGF-β1 correlated with lymph node metastasis 
(LNM) (P < 0.01). Expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 positively correlated with the 
expression of IL-10 and TGF-β1. After co-culture, we found that overexpression 
of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in cervical cancer cell lines resulted in activation of the 
cell cycle and decreased apoptosis of U-937 cells. In addition, the contents of 
IL-10 and TGF-β1, as well as their protein expression levels, increased in 
co-culture supernatants in U-937 cells, suggesting regulation by the 
p-JAK2/STAT3 pathway. The in vivo results demonstrated that with the increasing 
expression of B7-H3/B7-H4, the expression of IL-10 and TGF-β1 also increased 
significantly. Overall, the expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 favored an 
immunosuppressive microenvironment by promoting the production of IL-10 and 
TGF-β1, thereby resulting in progression of cervical carcinogenesis.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2018.08.014
PMID: 30099052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. PLoS One. 2018 Aug 23;13(8):e0203174. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0203174. 
eCollection 2018.

Correction: Serum soluble B7-H4 is a prognostic marker for patients with 
non-metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma.

PLOS ONE Staff.

Erratum for
    PLoS One. 2018 Jul 25;13(7):e0199719.

[This corrects the article DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0199719.].

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0203174
PMCID: PMC6107280
PMID: 30138452


295. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2018 Nov;67(11):1777-1788. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-018-2232-y. Epub 2018 Aug 22.

Molecular subgroups and B7-H4 expression levels predict responses to dendritic 
cell vaccines in glioblastoma: an exploratory randomized phase II clinical 
trial.

Yao Y(1)(2), Luo F(3), Tang C(1)(2), Chen D(1)(2), Qin Z(1)(2), Hua W(1), Xu 
M(1), Zhong P(1), Yu S(1)(2), Chen D(1)(2), Ding X(1)(2), Zhang Y(1), Zheng 
X(4), Yang J(4), Qian J(4), Deng Y(4), Hoon DSB(5), Hu J(6), Chu Y(7), Zhou 
L(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
200040, China.
(2)Neurosurgical Immunology Laboratory of Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200040, China.
(3)Biotherapy Research Center of Fudan University and Department of Digestive 
Diseases, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200040, China.
(4)Department of Immunology and Biotherapy Research Center, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, China.
(5)Department of Translational Molecular Medicine, John Wayne Cancer Institute 
(JWCI), Pacific Neuroscience Institute, Saint John's Health Center, Providence 
Health Systems, Santa Monica, CA, 90404, USA.
(6)Department of Cancer Biology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(7)Department of Immunology and Biotherapy Research Center, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, China. ywchu@shmu.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
200040, China. lfzhouc@126.com.
(9)Neurosurgical Immunology Laboratory of Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200040, China. lfzhouc@126.com.

Dendritic cell (DC)-based vaccination is a promising approach for 
active-specific immunotherapy, but is currently of limited efficacy. The safety 
and effectiveness of a DC vaccine (DCV) loaded with glioblastoma stem cell-like 
(GSC) antigens was assessed in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) patients. In this 
double-blind, placebo-controlled phase II clinical trial, 43 GBM patients were 
randomized after surgery at a 1:1 ratio to receive either DCV (n = 22) or normal 
saline placebo (n = 21). Overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival 
(PFS) were analysed. Participants were stratified into different molecular 
subgroups based on the mutation (MT) status of isocitrate dehydrogenase (IDH1/2) 
and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT). Plasma cytokine levels, 
tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte numbers and immune co-inhibitory molecules PD-L1 
and B7-H4 were also assessed. Multivariate Cox regression analysis revealed that 
DCV treatment significantly prolonged OS (p = 0.02) after adjusting for IDH1 and 
TERT promoter MT and B7-H4 expression, primary vs recurrent GBM. Among IDH1wild 
type (WT) TERTMT patients, DCV treatment significantly prolonged OS (p < 0.01) 
and PFS (p = 0.03) and increased plasma levels of cytokines CCL22 and IFN-γ 
compared with placebo. Patients with low B7-H4 expression showed significantly 
prolonged OS (p = 0.02) after DCV treatment. Therefore, IDH1WTTERTMT and low 
B7-H4 expression identified subgroups of GBM patients more responsive to GSC 
DCV-based specific active-immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-018-2232-y
PMID: 30159779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. J Biosci. 2018 Sep;43(4):661-671.

Construction, expression and functional analysis of anti-B7-H4- scFv-CH3 
recombinant antibody.

Ji H(1), Guo J, Yang Y, Xu C, Mao W.

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory for Molecular and Medical Biotechnology, 
College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210046, People's 
Republic of China.

The B7-H4 molecule, a unique negative regulator of T lymphocytes which is 
overexpressed on the surface of various tumor cells, is a particularly important 
target candidate for tumor therapy because it can be blocked with anti-B7-H4 
antibodies to inhibit the B7-H4 signaling pathway. Our previous work established 
an anti-B7-H4 single-chain variable fragment (scFv) library, so we have now 
amplified the genes encoding anti-B7-H4-scFv and human IgG1 CH3 and ligated them 
by overlap extension PCR to obtain a recombinant gene. After sequencing, the 
gene was cloned into the expression vector pET43.1a and expression was induced 
in E. coli BL21 (DE3) by isopropyl-β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG). The 
protein was purified on a nickel-nitrilotriacetic acid (Ni-NTA) resin column and 
its antigen specificity and affinity were examined by ELISA and western 
blotting. We also established a Lewis lung cancer model in C57BL/6 mice to 
further identify the biological function of the scFv protein in vivo. The 
results showed that tumor volume, body weight and necrotic tissues in the 
control group were significantly greater than in the experimental group, 
indicating that selected scFvs had good biological activity and could inhibit 
tumor growth in tumor-bearing mice. Our work thus offers a new approach for the 
development of cancer-targeted therapy.

PMID: 30207312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2018 Oct;26(5):1355-1359. doi: 
10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2018.05.016.

[Expression of sB7-H4 in Serum and Lymphoma Tissues of Patients with Malignant 
Lymphoma and Its Value for Diagnosis and Re-Examine of Lymphoma].

[Article in Chinese]

Liang XP(1), Yang HL(2), Shao MM(1), Li N(1), Li XF(1), Liu B(1), Li HY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Technology, Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an 710021, 
Shaanxi Province, China.
(2)Department of Laboratorial Medicine, Xianyang Central Hospital, Xianyang 
713799, Shaanxi Province, China.
(3)Department of Medical Technology, Xi'an Medical University, Xi'an 710021, 
Shaanxi Province, China.E-mail: lihaiyan319@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: To study the soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) expression in serum and lymphoma 
tissues of patients with malignant lymphoma (ML) and its value for diagnosis and 
re-examination lymphoma.
METHODS: The serum samples from 83 cases of ML were collected, among them 69 
cases of newly diagnosed ML were enrolled in group A including 11 cases of 
Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL group) and 58 cases of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL 
group), the serum samples from 14 cases of relapsed ML were enrolled in group B; 
at the same time the serum samples of 50 healthy persons conformed by physical 
examination were collected and enrolled in control group. The double antibody 
sandwich ELISA was used to detect the serum level of sB7-H4 in each group, and 
immunohistochemistry method was used to detect the expression of sB7-H4 in 
malignant lymphoma and reactive lymphoid hyperplasia tissues.
RESULTS: The serum level of sB7-H4 in the group A was significantly increased in 
comparison with the group B and control group, and the level of group B was 
significantly higher than that in the control group (P<0.05); the serum level of 
sB7-H4 in the NHL group was significantly increased in comparison with HL group 
and control group, and the level of HL group was higher than that of control 
group (P<0.05). The expression of sB7-H4 in reactive lymphoid hyperplasia 
tissues was negative, but the positive expression rate in malignant lymphoma 
tissues was 47.50%, suggesting the positive rate of sB7-H4 in malignant lymphoma 
tissues was significantly higher than that of reactive lymphoid hyperplasia 
tissues (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The high expression of sB7-H4 in serum and lymphoma tissues of 
patients with malignant lymphoma has a certain value for the diagnosis and 
re-examination of patients with malignant lymphoma.

DOI: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2018.05.016
PMID: 30295250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. BMC Vet Res. 2018 Oct 12;14(1):311. doi: 10.1186/s12917-018-1630-x.

A case of giant panda ovarian cancer diagnosis and histopathology.

Gao Q(1), Wang C(2), Li D(3), Zhang H(2), Deng L(2), Li C(2), Chen Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Animal Disease Model, College of Veterinary Medicine, Sichuan 
Agricultural University, Chengdu, China.
(2)China Giant Panda Conservation Research Center, Dujiangyan, China.
(3)China Giant Panda Conservation Research Center, Dujiangyan, China. 
1050133153@qq.com.
(4)Laboratory of Animal Disease Model, College of Veterinary Medicine, Sichuan 
Agricultural University, Chengdu, China. chzhli75@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer is diagnosed clinically by detecting ovarian 
cancer-related factors and markers. Here, we report a case of giant panda 
ovarian tumor metastasis with a combination of clinical and histopathological 
diagnosis.
CASE PRESENTATION: Histopathological studies revealed severe lesions and tumor 
cells in the ovaries, lungs, spleen, kidneys and perianal tissue. 
Immunohistochemistry staining showed that the ovarian cancer markers B7-H4, 
CA125, and HE4 were highly expressed in the lungs, kidneys, spleen, ovaries and 
perianal tissue. Tumor marker tests detected significantly high levels of AFP in 
serum.
CONCLUSION: Clinical biomarkers combined with histopathology can provide a more 
accurate diagnosis of ovarian cancer metastasis and identification of ovarian 
cancer types than either method alone. The giant panda's death may be due to 
granulosa cell tumor and theca cell tumor metastasis causing multiple organ 
dysfunction or even failure.

DOI: 10.1186/s12917-018-1630-x
PMCID: PMC6186091
PMID: 30314476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL: All protocols were approved by 
the animal care and use committee of Sichuan agricultural university, following 
the guidelines on animal experiments which come under the permit No.DY- 
S20174411. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


299. Oral Dis. 2019 Sep;25(6):1435-1445. doi: 10.1111/odi.12991. Epub 2018 Nov
12.

The prognostic value of immune checkpoints in oral squamous cell carcinoma.

Sieviläinen M(1), Almahmoudi R(1), Al-Samadi A(1), Salo T(1)(2)(3), Pirinen 
M(4)(5)(6), Almangush A(1)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Diseases, Clinicum, University of 
Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(2)Medical Research Centre, Oulu University Hospital, Oulu, Finland.
(3)Department of Diagnostics and Oral Medicine, Medical Faculty, Research Group 
of Cancer Research and Translational Medicine, University of Oulu, Oulu, 
Finland.
(4)Institute for Molecular Medicine Finland FIMM, Helsinki Institute of Life 
Science HiLIFE, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(5)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(6)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, 
Finland.
(7)Department of Pathology, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland.
(8)Institute of Dentistry, University of Misurata, Misurata, Libya.

BACKGROUND: Despite the importance of immune checkpoints in immunotherapy, the 
prognostic value of these molecules remains controversial in oral squamous cell 
carcinoma (OSCC). We performed a systematic review to investigate the prognostic 
significance of the immune checkpoints in OSCC.
MATERIALS: A systematic search was conducted in Ovid Medline, Scopus and 
Cochrane libraries, and all studies that evaluated the prognostic significance 
of immune checkpoints in OSCC were systematically retrieved.
RESULTS: Twelve immune checkpoints/modulators were studied for their prognostic 
values in OSCC patients between 1985 and 2017. Seven immune checkpoints (FKBP51, 
B7-H4, B7-H6, ALHD1, PD-L1, B7-H3 and IDO1) were reported to be associated with 
poor patients' survival in at least one study, and five (CTLA-4, TLT-2, VISTA, 
PD-L2 and PD-1) did not have a significant prognostic value. PD-L1 results were 
controversial as it was reported to be associated with both better and worse 
patients' survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Even though immune checkpoint markers had high expectation for OSCC 
prognostication, our systematic review revealed that the majority of them had 
been studied only once. The other molecules, which had been studied more than 
once, had controversial findings, except B7-H3.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/odi.12991
PMID: 30315712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Dis Markers. 2018 Sep 27;2018:4310790. doi: 10.1155/2018/4310790.
eCollection  2018.

Clinical Value of Combined Determination of Serum B7-H4 with Carcinoembryonic 
Antigen, Osteopontin, or Tissue Polypeptide-Specific Antigen for the Diagnosis 
of Colorectal Cancer.

Wang P(1)(2), Li C(1)(2), Zhang F(1), Ma X(1)(2), Gai X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Medical School of Beihua University, Jilin, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Medicine, Jilin Province Education Department, 
Beihua University, Jilin, China.

AIM: B7-H4 is member of the B7 family that negatively regulates the immune 
response, which are associated with tumor development and prognosis. The present 
study is aimed at examining serum B7-H4 expression and exploring its 
contribution to diagnosis in patients with colorectal cancer.
METHODS: We determined serum expressions of B7-H4, carcinoembryonic antigen 
(CEA), osteopontin (OPN), and tissue polypeptide-specific antigen (TPS) in 59 
patients with colorectal cancer and 29 healthy volunteers and analyzed the 
diagnostic value of B7-H4 combined with CEA, OPN, or TPS detection for 
colorectal cancer. B7-H4, OPN, and TPS serum expressions were measured by 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and CEA was measured by electrochemical 
luminescence detection.
RESULTS: Serum B7-H4 levels were significantly higher in colorectal cancer 
patients compared with paired normal controls (P = 0.001). B7-H4 serum level was 
positively correlated with infiltration depth, tumor masses, and lymph node 
metastasis (P = 0.004, P = 0.016, and P = 0.0052, respectively). We also 
detected serum expression of B7-H4 before and after radical resection and showed 
that B7-H4 levels decreased significantly during the first week postoperation (P 
= 0.0064). We used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis to 
indicate the potential diagnostic values of these markers. The areas under the 
ROC curves (AUC) for B7-H4, OPN, TPS, and CEA were 0.867, 0.805, 0.812, and 
0.833, respectively. The optimal sensitivity and specificity of B7-H4 for 
discriminating between colon cancer patients and healthy controls were 88.2% and 
86.7%, respectively, using a cut-off of value of 78.89 ng/mL. However, combined 
ROC analysis using B7-H4 and CEA revealed an AUC of 0.929, with a sensitivity of 
98.9% and a specificity of 80.4% for discriminating colon cancer patients from 
healthy controls.
CONCLUSIONS: B7-H4 was highly expressed in the serum in colorectal cancer 
patients. Detection of B7-H4 plus CEA showed significantly increased sensitivity 
and specificity for discriminating between colorectal cancer patients and 
healthy controls compared to individual detection of these markers. Combined 
detection of serum B7-H4 and CEA may thus have the potential to become a new 
laboratory method for the early clinical diagnosis and prognostic evaluation of 
colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/4310790
PMCID: PMC6180982
PMID: 30363700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2018 Oct;22(20):6778-6783. doi: 
10.26355/eurrev_201810_16144.

The effects of interventional therapy on serum HTATIP2/TIP30, B7-H4 and 
short-term curative effect in primary hepatocellular carcinoma.

Zheng ZJ(1), Fu J, Zhi F, Liu WJ, Guo YJ, Zhu DD, Mo JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, the First People's Hospital of Wenling, 
Taizhou, China. mjg8882@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the effects of interventional therapy on human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 Tat interactive protein 2/Tat interactive protein 
30 (HTATIP2/TIP30), B7-H4 and short-term curative effect in primary 
hepatocellular carcinoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 62 patients with primary hepatocellular carcinoma admitted 
in our hospital from June 2015 to June 2016 were enrolled in this study and 
divided into observation group (n = 31) and control group (n = 31) according to 
the random number table. The patients in the control group were treated with 
radiofrequency ablation, and the patients in the observation group were treated 
with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE). The patients in both 
groups received liver protection therapy, hydration, antiemetic and stomach 
protection. The curative effects, the serum HTATIP2/TIP30, B7-H4, alanine 
aminotransferase (ALT) and total bilirubin in serum (TBIL), life quality before 
and after treatment, and survival during the 1-year follow-up, were compared.
RESULTS: The total short-term effective rate (70.97%) was higher than the 
control group (38.71%) (p < 0.05). The serum levels of HTATIP2/TIP30 and B7-H4 
were decreased after treatment in both groups (observation group: t = 17.1838, 
18.9795, control group: t = 8.3787, 10.6393, p < 0.05). The serum levels of 
HTATIP2/TIP30 and B7-H4 after treatment in the observation group were lower than 
the control group (t = 12.2975, 10.5361, p < 0.05). The levels of ALT and TBIL 
were decreased after treatment (observation group: t = 15.1716, 34.5771, control 
group: t = 8.3374, 17.3015, p < 0.05). The levels of ALT and TBIL were lower in 
the observation groups than the control group (t = 15.2697, 16.8592, p < 0.05). 
The improvement rate of life quality in the observation group (80.65%) was 
higher than the control group (54.84%) (p < 0.05). The survival rates of the two 
groups after 1-year follow-up were not statistically different (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The short-term curative effect of interventional therapy of primary 
hepatocellular carcinoma is good. It can decrease serum HTATIP2/TIP30 and B7-H4, 
improves the liver function and the life quality of patients, prolonging the 
survival time. It has a high research value and it is worthy of further 
application.

DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201810_16144
PMID: 30402840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Tumour Biol. 2018 Nov;40(11):1010428318815032. doi:
10.1177/1010428318815032.

B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression in phyllodes tumors of the breast detected by RNA in 
situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry: Association with 
clinicopathological features and T-cell infiltration.

Kim GE(1), Kim NI(1), Park MH(1), Lee JS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Pathology, Chonnam National University Medical School, 
Gwangju, South Korea.
(2)3 Department of Pathology, Chonnam National University Hwasun Hospital, 
Hwasun, South Korea.

Phyllodes tumors are rare biphasic breast tumors with the potential for both 
local recurrence and distant metastasis. The aberrant expression of B7-H3 and 
B7-H4 B7 molecules could be potential targets for future development of 
immunotherapeutic approaches. This work was undertaken to evaluate the 
expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in phyllodes tumors and assess the association 
with the grade and clinical behavior of phyllodes tumors. In addition, the roles 
of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in the regulation of tumor immune surveillance were evaluated 
by assessing the relationship between B7-H3/B7-H4 expression and T-cell 
infiltration. The messenger RNA and protein expression of B7-H3/B7-H4 were 
determined by RNAscope in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry, 
respectively, in 101 phyllodes tumors (60 benign, 26 borderline, and 15 
malignant) using a tissue microarray. Immunohistochemistry for CD3 and CD8 was 
also performed. B7-H3 messenger RNA and protein appeared to be concentrated 
mainly in the stromal compartment of phyllodes tumors. However, B7-H4 messenger 
RNA and protein were undetectable in the stromal compartment of phyllodes 
tumors. Stromal B7-H3 messenger RNA and protein expression were noted in 10 
(16.7%) and 31 (51.7%) of 60 benign phyllodes tumors, 12 (46.1%) and 20 (76.9%) 
of 26 borderline phyllodes tumors, and 10 (66.7%) and 13 (86.7%) of 15 malignant 
phyllodes tumors, respectively. Stromal B7-H3 messenger RNA and protein 
expression increased as phyllodes tumors progressed from benign to borderline 
and finally to the malignant grade (Pearson's R = 0.411, p < 0.001 and Pearson's 
R = 0.293, p = 0.003, respectively). The recurrence rate was higher in the 
stromal B7-H3 messenger RNA or protein-positive group than in the negative 
group, but this difference was not significant. Stromal B7-H3 protein expression 
inversely correlated with the densities of CD3+ and CD8+ T-cell infiltrates ( 
p = 0.001 and p = 0.027, respectively). These results suggest that B7-H3 is 
involved in the progression of phyllodes tumors and may contribute to their 
immune surveillance.

DOI: 10.1177/1010428318815032
PMID: 30486739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. NPJ Breast Cancer. 2018 Dec 10;4:40. doi: 10.1038/s41523-018-0095-1.
eCollection  2018.

Association of B7-H4, PD-L1, and tumor infiltrating lymphocytes with outcomes in 
breast cancer.

Altan M(1)(2), Kidwell KM(3)(4), Pelekanou V(5), Carvajal-Hausdorf DE(5)(6), 
Schalper KA(1)(5), Toki MI(5), Thomas DG(4), Sabel MS(4), Hayes DF(4), Rimm 
DL(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)1Section of Medical Oncology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT USA.
(2)2Department of Thoracic/Head & Neck Medical Oncology, The University of Texas 
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX USA.
(3)3Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI USA.
(4)4Breast Oncology Program, University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Ann Arbor, MI USA.
(5)5Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT USA.
(6)6Anatomic Pathology, Clinica Alemana-Facultad de Medicina Universidad de 
Desarrollo, Vitacura, Santiago Chile.

B7-H4 (VTCN1) is a member of the CD28/B7 family of immune co-inhibitory 
molecules. The relationship of tumor and stromal B7-H4 protein expression with 
PD-L1, tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) and its association with 
clinico-pathological variables are not well defined. Herein, we explore the 
expression level of B7-H4 protein in breast cancer and evaluate its association 
with TILs, levels of PD-L1 expression, and clinico-pathological characteristics 
in two independent populations. In this study, we used multiplexed automated 
quantitative immunofluorescence (QIF) to measure the levels of B7-H4 and PD-L1 
protein and determined TILs through pathologist assessment of H&E-stained 
preparations in over a thousand breast cancer cases from two institutions 
represented in tissue microarray format. Associations between the marker levels, 
major clinico-pathological variables, and survival were analyzed. We detected 
B7-H4 protein was highly expressed in both breast cancer and stromal cells. Its 
expression was independent of breast cancer intrinsic subtypes. PD-L1 expression 
was higher in triple negative breast cancers. Neither B7-H4 nor PD-L1 were 
associated with survival in breast cancer. Our study shows there is a mutually 
exclusive pattern of B7-H4 with both tumor PD-L1 expression and TILs in all 
breast cancers, independent of breast cancer intrinsic subtype. This exclusive 
pattern suggests that some breast tumors may preferentially use one B7-related 
immune evasion mechanism/pathway. This could explain the clinical benefit that 
is seen only in a fraction of patients with immune checkpoint inhibitors 
directed exclusively towards PD-L1 in breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/s41523-018-0095-1
PMCID: PMC6288133
PMID: 30564631

Conflict of interest statement: D.L.R. is a consultant/advisor to Astra Zeneca, 
Agendia, Agilent, Bethyl Labs, Biocept, BMS, Cell Signaling Technology, Cepheid, 
Merck, OptraScan, Perkin Elmer, and Ultivue. Holds equity in PixelGear. Astra 
Zeneca, Cepheid, Navigate/Novartis, Gilead Sciences, Ultivue, and Perkin Elmer 
funds research in Rimm’s lab. The remaining authors declare no competing 
interests.


304. PLoS One. 2019 Jan 17;14(1):e0210276. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0210276. 
eCollection 2019.

Differential modulation and prognostic values of immune-escape genes in uveal 
melanoma.

Basile MS(1), Mazzon E(2), Russo A(3), Mammana S(2), Longo A(3), Bonfiglio V(3), 
Fallico M(3), Caltabiano R(4), Fagone P(1), Nicoletti F(1), Avitabile T(3), 
Reibaldi M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, University of 
Catania, Catania, Italy.
(2)IRCCS Centro Neurolesi Bonino Pulejo, C.da Casazza, Messina, Italy.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Catania, Catania, Italy.
(4)Department 'G.F. Ingrassia', Section of Anatomic Pathology, University of 
Catania, Catania, Italy.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular cancer in adults. In 
the present study, we aimed to characterize the immunological features of 
primary UM cancer and to provide an association with prognostic markers and 
outcome. Also, we assessed the influence of the microenvironment on the 
expression of inhibitory immune checkpoints in UM. Genes of interest included 
MHC Class I and Class II molecules, as well as inhibitory immune-checkpoints, 
i.e. PDL1, PDL2, B7-H3, B7-H4, TBFRSF6B, CD47, CD155, GAL9, HVEM and CD200. We 
observed significant lower levels of MHC genes in UM cells as compared to normal 
uveal melanocytes. Unexpectedly however, the expression levels of most of the 
analyzed inhibitory immune-checkpoint genes were not different in cancer cells 
as compared to normal melanocytes, with the exception of CD200 and HVEM, that 
resulted significantly reduced. On the other hand, PDL1 inversely correlated 
with OS, PFS and thickness of the tumor. Also, PDL1, along with PDL2, expression 
significantly increased under inflammatory conditions. Finally, for the first 
time, we propose a possible role for CD47 in the immune evasive properties of 
UM. We show here that CD47 is significantly upregulated by UM cells following 
inflammatory stimuli and that it represents a good independent predictor of 
disease progression. The results from this study may propel advances in the 
development of immune-based therapies for UM patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0210276
PMCID: PMC6336329
PMID: 30653520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


305. J Cancer. 2019 Jan 1;10(1):11-19. doi: 10.7150/jca.28134. eCollection 2019.

Epithelioid Trophoblastic Tumors: Treatments, Outcomes, and Potential 
Therapeutic Targets.

Yang J(1), Zong L(1), Wang J(2), Wan X(1), Feng F(1), Xiang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100730, PR China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100730, PR China.

Background: Epithelioid trophoblastic tumors (ETTs) are the rarest type of 
gestational trophoblastic neoplasias. We investigated the clinical features, 
treatments, outcomes, and prognostic factors in patients with ETT, and explored 
potential therapeutic targets. Methods: We retrospectively analyzed the clinical 
features, treatments, survival, and prognostic factors of 21 ETT patients 
treated at our institution between January 2002 and December 2017. Expression 
levels of programmed cell death 1 (PD-1), PD-1 ligands (PD-L1and PD-L2), B7 
family ligands (B7-H3, B7-H4, V-domain Ig suppressor of T cell activation 
[VISTA], and B7-H6), and CD105 expression were assessed by immunohistochemistry. 
Results: Fourteen patients with ETT (66.7%) presented with irregular vaginal 
bleeding. Three stage I patients (14.3%) with normal β-human chorionic 
gonadotropin (β- hCG) levels underwent hysterectomy alone. Of the remaining 18 
patients who had elevated β-hCG levels (85.7%), 1 received chemotherapy and 17 
underwent surgery and multi-agent chemotherapy. After treatment, 17 patients 
(81.0%) achieved complete remission (2 of whom [11.8%] later relapsed) and 4 
(19.0%) with stage IV died of their disease. On univariate and multivariate 
analyses, stage IV disease was an independent prognostic factor for overall and 
disease-free survival (P < 0.001). PD-L1, B7-H3, and CD105 were detected in 100% 
of samples, PD-L2 and VISTA in 82%, B7-H6 in 18%, and B7-H4 was undetectable in 
ETT cells. Conclusions: Hysterectomy and metastatic lesion resection are 
essential for controlling ETT. Surgery plus chemotherapy are recommended for 
patients with abnormal β-hCG levels and metastatic disease. PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3, 
VISTA and CD105 are potential therapeutic targets for metastatic ETT.

DOI: 10.7150/jca.28134
PMCID: PMC6329873
PMID: 30662520

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


306. Am J Transl Res. 2018 Dec 15;10(12):3978-3990. eCollection 2018.

Immunophenotypic characterization of sphere-forming cells derived from the human 
renal cell carcinoma cell line 786-O.

Shen C(1), Hu G(1), Zhang S(2), Ao X(3), Zhou Q(3), Xiao P(3), Zhong Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The Affiliated Zhuzhou Hospital Xiangya Medical 
College, Central South University Zhuzhou 412007, Hunan Province, China.
(2)Department of Immunology, Cancer Institute, Peking Union Medical College and 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences Beijing 100021, China.
(3)Department of Nephrology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University Changsha 
410008, China.

Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have been found in many different types of malignant 
tumors. In our previous study, we found that sphere-forming cells (SFCs) from 
the renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cell line SK-RC-42 are rich in CSCs. However, our 
previous reports are based on only one human RCC cell line, which makes it 
difficult to determine whether the findings from this cell line represent the 
general mechanisms in human RCC. Therefore, in this study, we attempted to 
evaluate whether the sphere culture method could enrich for CSCs from another 
human RCC cell line, 786-O, and to characterize their immunological phenotype. 
We discovered that a small population of 786-O cells was capable of growing as 
tumor spheres. The SFCs had many properties similar to CSCs, including greater 
ability to self-renew in vitro and in vivo, higher mRNA expression levels of 
several 'stemness' genes, stronger tumorigenicity and resistance to 
chemotherapeutic agents than monolayer adherent cells (MACs). The SFCs expressed 
low levels of MHC-I, HLA-DR, CD80, CD86, CD152 and CD154. Additionally, the SFCs 
had lower expression levels of Her2 and hTERT, FasL, Fas, the transcription 
factor forkhead box protein 3 (FoxP3) and activating natural killer cell 
receptors than did the MACs. In addition, both 786-O SFCs and MACs were weakly 
positive for B7-H4 expression, while the expression level of B7-H1 in 786-O SFCs 
was lower than that in MACs. Furthermore, 786-O SFCs and MACs both expressed 
substantial and comparable levels of membrane complement regulatory proteins 
(mCRPs). Finally, we found that 786-O SFCs triggered T cell apoptosis. These 
findings suggested that tumor spheres from 786-O cells are rich in CSCs. The 
immunological phenotype of the SFCs described in our study suggests that CSCs 
might play an important role in tumor immune evasion.

PMCID: PMC6325489
PMID: 30662644

Conflict of interest statement: None.


307. Pathol Res Pract. 2019 Apr;215(4):772-778. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2019.01.019.
Epub  2019 Jan 14.

Overexpression of FAM3C is associated with poor prognosis in oral squamous cell 
carcinoma.

Wu CC(1), Xiao Y(1), Li H(1), Mao L(1), Deng WW(1), Yu GT(1), Zhang WF(2), Sun 
ZJ(3).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, China.
(2)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, China; Department of 
Oral and Maxillofacial-Head Neck Surgery, School & Hospital of Stomatology, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, China.
(3)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, China; Department of 
Oral and Maxillofacial-Head Neck Surgery, School & Hospital of Stomatology, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan, 430079, China. Electronic address: sunzj@whu.edu.cn.

Expression of the family with sequence similarity 3 member C (FAM3C) is 
necessary for the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). However, the 
expression level and clinicopathological significance of FAM3C in oral squamous 
cell carcinoma (OSCC) has not been thoroughly elucidated to date. We performed 
immunohistochemical staining on human OSCC specimens with FAM3C, co-inhibitory 
immune checkpoints, EMT markers, and cancer stem cells (CSCs) markers to analyze 
the expression levels and clinicopathological features of FAM3C in OSCC. There 
were 210 primary OSCC specimens, 69 oral epithelial dysplasia and 42 normal oral 
mucosae in our human OSCC tissue microarrays cohort. We observed that FAM3C 
expression was upregulated in OSCC compared with normal mucosa and epithelial 
dysplasia (P <  0.001). Moreover, patients with higher FAM3C expression levels 
had a worse prognosis than those with lower expression levels (P < 0.05). Also, 
FAM3C expression was positively correlated with the immune checkpoints PD-L1, 
VISTA, and B7-H4, the EMT marker Slug and the CSC markers SOX2 and ALDH1. In 
conclusion, these findings suggested that overexpression of FAM3C in human OSCC 
may predict a poor prognosis for OSCC patients.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2019.01.019
PMID: 30683473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 May 1;25(9):2925-2934. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-3123.  Epub 2019 Feb 8.

A T-cell-engaging B7-H4/CD3-bispecific Fab-scFv Antibody Targets Human Breast 
Cancer.

Iizuka A(1), Nonomura C(1), Ashizawa T(1), Kondou R(1), Ohshima K(2), Sugino 
T(3), Mitsuya K(4), Hayashi N(4), Nakasu Y(4), Maruyama K(5), Yamaguchi K(6), 
Akiyama Y(7)(4).

Author information:
(1)Immunotherapy Division, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, Shizuoka, 
Japan.
(2)Medical Genetics Division, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, 
Shizuoka, Japan.
(3)Division of Pathology, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan.
(4)Division of Neurosurgery, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan.
(5)Experimental Animal Facility, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, 
Shizuoka, Japan.
(6)Office of the President, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan.
(7)Immunotherapy Division, Shizuoka Cancer Center Research Institute, Shizuoka, 
Japan. y.akiyama@scchr.jp.

PURPOSE: The B7 homolog 4 (B7-H4, VTCN1) is an immune checkpoint molecule that 
negatively regulates immune responses and is known to be overexpressed in many 
human cancers. Previously, we generated a mouse anti-human B7-H4 mAb that did 
not have a significant antitumor effect in vivo probably because of molecule 
instability. In this study, we designed a B7-H4/CD3-bispecific antibody (BsAb) 
and investigated its antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo using a humanized 
mouse model.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: cDNAs of the antibody-binding fragment (Fab)-single-chain 
variable fragment (scFv) and scFv-scFv of the anti-B7-H4/CD3 BsAb were 
synthesized, and the BsAb antibodies were produced in HEK293 cells. The 
antitumor activity against human breast cancer cells by human peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells (hPBMC) with BsAb was measured by lactate dehydrogenase 
release in vitro, and in vivo using hPBMC-transplanted MHC class I- and class 
II-deficient NOG mice.
RESULTS: hPBMCs with anti-B7-H4/CD3 BsAbs successfully lysed the human breast 
cancer cell line MDA-MB-468 (EC50: 0.2 ng/mL) and other B7-H4+ cell lines in 
vitro. When BsAb was injected in a humanized mouse model, there was an immediate 
and strong antitumor activity against MDA-MB-468, HCC-1954, and HCC-1569 tumors 
and CD8+ and granzyme B+ CTL infiltration into the tumor, and there were no 
adverse effects after long-term observation. CD8+ T-cell depletion by an 
anti-CD8 antibody mostly reduced the antitumor effect of BsAb in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: An anti-B7-H4/CD3 BsAb may be a good therapeutic tool for patients 
with B7-H4+ breast cancers.

©2019 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-3123
PMID: 30737243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. J Clin Invest. 2019 Apr 1;129(4):1785-1800. doi: 10.1172/JCI96313. Epub 2019
Mar  18.

Spatially distinct tumor immune microenvironments stratify triple-negative 
breast cancers.

Gruosso T(1)(2), Gigoux M(1), Manem VSK(3)(4), Bertos N(1), Zuo D(1), Perlitch 
I(1), Saleh SMI(1)(5)(6), Zhao H(1), Souleimanova M(1), Johnson RM(1), Monette 
A(7), Ramos VM(1), Hallett MT(5)(6)(8), Stagg J(7), Lapointe R(7), Omeroglu 
A(9), Meterissian S(2)(10), Buisseret L(11), Van den Eynden G(12), Salgado 
R(11)(12), Guiot MC(9)(13), Haibe-Kains B(3)(4)(14)(15), Park M(1)(2)(5)(9).

Author information:
(1)Goodman Cancer Research Centre and.
(2)Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(3)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre and.
(4)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(5)Department of Biochemistry.
(6)Centre for Bioinformatics, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(7)Centre de Recherche du Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de Montréal et 
Institut du Cancer de Montréal, Montréal, Canada.
(8)School of Computer Science, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(9)Department of Pathology and.
(10)Department of Surgery, McGill University Health Centre (MUHC), Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(11)Breast Cancer Translational Research Laboratory, Institut Jules Bordet, 
Université Libre de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium.
(12)Departments of Pathology and Cytology, GZA Hospitals, Wilrijk, Belgium.
(13)Montreal Neurological Institute and Hospital, McGill University, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(14)Department of Computer Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(15)Ontario Institute of Cancer Research, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Understanding the tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) promises to be key for 
optimal cancer therapy, especially in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). 
Integrating spatial resolution of immune cells with laser capture 
microdissection gene expression profiles, we defined distinct TIME 
stratification in TNBC, with implications for current therapies including immune 
checkpoint blockade. TNBCs with an immunoreactive microenvironment exhibited 
tumoral infiltration of granzyme B+CD8+ T cells (GzmB+CD8+ T cells), a type 1 
IFN signature, and elevated expression of multiple immune inhibitory molecules 
including indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) and programmed cell death ligand 1 
(PD-L1), and resulted in good outcomes. An "immune-cold" microenvironment with 
an absence of tumoral CD8+ T cells was defined by elevated expression of the 
immunosuppressive marker B7-H4, signatures of fibrotic stroma, and poor 
outcomes. A distinct poor-outcome immunomodulatory microenvironment, hitherto 
poorly characterized, exhibited stromal restriction of CD8+ T cells, stromal 
expression of PD-L1, and enrichment for signatures of cholesterol biosynthesis. 
Metasignatures defining these TIME subtypes allowed us to stratify TNBCs, 
predict outcomes, and identify potential therapeutic targets for TNBC.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI96313
PMCID: PMC6436884
PMID: 30753167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: JS is a permanent member 
of the Scientific Advisory Board and holds stock in Surface Oncology.


310. Clin Cancer Res. 2019 Jun 1;25(11):3455-3467. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-2355. Epub 2019 Feb 26.

B7-H3 Expression in Merkel Cell Carcinoma-Associated Endothelial Cells 
Correlates with Locally Aggressive Primary Tumor Features and Increased Vascular 
Density.

Aung PP(1), Parra ER(2), Barua S(3), Sui D(4), Ning J(4), Mino B(2), Ledesma 
DA(2), Curry JL(1), Nagarajan P(1), Torres-Cabala CA(1), Efstathiou E(5), Hoang 
AG(5), Wong MK(6), Wargo JA(7)(8), Lazar AJ(1)(2)(8), Rao A(3)(4), Prieto VG(1), 
Wistuba I(2), Tetzlaff MT(9)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas.
(2)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, the University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(3)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Rice University, Houston, 
Texas.
(4)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, the University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(5)Department of Genitourinary Medical Oncology, the University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(6)Department of Melanoma Medical Oncology, the University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(7)Department of Surgical Oncology, the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(8)Department of Genomic Medicine, the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(9)Department of Pathology, the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas. mtetzlaff@mdanderson.org.

PURPOSE: Merkel cell carcinoma (MCC) is an aggressive cutaneous malignancy whose 
pathogenesis and prognosis are related to the integrity of the host immune 
system. Despite promising clinical responses to immune-checkpoint blockade, 
response and resistance remain unpredictable, underscoring a critical need to 
delineate novel prognostic biomarkers and/or therapeutic targets for this 
disease.Experimental Design: Expression of immune-regulatory markers (PD-L2, 
B7-H3, B7-H4, IDO-1, ICOS, TIM3, LAG3, VISTA, and OX-40) was assessed using 
singlet chromogenic IHC in 10 primary MCCs. Multiplex immunofluorescence 
quantified CD31 and B7-H3 expression in 52 primary and 25 metastatic MCCs. B7-H3 
and CD31 expressions were tabulated as a series of independent (X,Y) cell 
centroids. A spatial G-function, calculated based on the distribution of 
distances of B7-H3+ (X,Y) cell centroids around the CD31+ (X,Y) cell centroids, 
was used to estimate a colocalization index equivalent to the percentage of 
CD31-positive cell centroids that overlap with a B7-H3-positive cell centroid.
RESULTS: Primary and metastatic MCCs exhibit a dynamic range of colocalized CD31 
and B7-H3 expression. Increasing colocalized expression of B7-H3 with CD31 
significantly associated with increased tumor size (P = 0.0060), greater depth 
of invasion (P = 0.0110), presence of lymphovascular invasion (P = 0.0453), and 
invasion beyond skin (P = 0.0428) in primary MCC. Consistent with these 
findings, increasing colocalized expression of B7-H3 and CD31 correlated with 
increasing vascular density in primary MCC, but not metastatic MCC.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that colocalized expression of B7-H3/CD31 
is a poor prognostic indicator and suggest therapies targeting B7-H3 may 
represent an effective approach to augmenting immune-activating therapies for 
MCC.

©2019 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-18-2355
PMCID: PMC8211110
PMID: 30808776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Medicine (Baltimore). 2019 Feb;98(8):e14663. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000014663.

Association of increased B7 protein expression by infiltrating immune cells with 
progression of gastric carcinogenesis.

Guo L(1), Liu Z(2), Zhang Y(2), Quan Q(2), Huang L(3), Xu Y(4), Cao L(1), Zhang 
X(5).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University.
(2)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory.
(4)Institute of Pediatric Medicine, Children's Hospital of Soochow University.
(5)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Soochow 
University.

B7 negative costimulatory molecules are a group of molecules associated with the 
occurrence, development, and therapy of cancers. Here, we aimed to determine the 
clinical significance of PD-L1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 and their expression in CD8 and 
CD68 positive cells at different stages of gastric carcinogenesis.We detected 
PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, CD8, and CD68 expression in samples by immunohistochemical 
staining of 62 chronic superficial gastritis (CSG) samples, 72 chronic atrophic 
gastritis (CAG) samples, 68 low-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (LIN) samples, 
65 high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (HIN) samples obtained from gastroscopic 
biopsies and 50 gastric adenocarcinoma (GA) samples obtained from surgical 
resections. Then we statistically analyzed the expression differences and 
correlations.Our results indicated that B7 and CD68 expression on infiltrating 
immune cells was associated with disease progression. However, infiltration of 
CD8+ cells decreased with disease progression. B7-H3 expression was markedly 
enhanced at neoplasia and GA stages. B7-H3 in tumor cells was negatively 
correlated with CD8-expressing cells. Conversely, B7-H3 expression in 
tumor-infiltrating immune cells was positively correlated with CD68-expressing 
cells. B7-H4 expression was found in the cell membrane at the stages of 
gastritis and low-grade neoplasia and was gradually expressed in the cytoplasm 
at high-grade neoplasia and GA stages. High B7-H4 expression in infiltrating 
immune cells was also significantly associated with lower CD8-positive and 
higher CD68-positive cell densities.Increased B7 protein expression by 
infiltrating immune cells was associated with disease progression, and 
specifically, the level of B7-H3 expression and localization of B7-H4 expression 
differed significantly among different stages of gastric carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000014663
PMCID: PMC6407991
PMID: 30813210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


312. J Immunother Cancer. 2019 Mar 8;7(1):65. doi: 10.1186/s40425-019-0540-1.

Expression and clinical significance of PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and TILs in human 
small cell lung Cancer (SCLC).

Carvajal-Hausdorf D(1)(2), Altan M(3)(4), Velcheti V(5), Gettinger SN(3), Herbst 
RS(3), Rimm DL(1)(3), Schalper KA(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, USA.
(2)Anatomia Patologica, Clinica Alemana, Facultad de Medicina Universidad del 
Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Medical Oncology, Yale School of Medicine and Yale Cancer Center, 333 Cedar 
St. FMP117, New Haven, CT, 06520-8023, USA.
(4)Thoracic Oncology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Camden, USA.
(5)Thoracic Oncology, New York University, New York, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, USA. 
kurt.schalper@yale.edu.
(7)Anatomia Patologica, Clinica Alemana, Facultad de Medicina Universidad del 
Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile. kurt.schalper@yale.edu.
(8)Medical Oncology, Yale School of Medicine and Yale Cancer Center, 333 Cedar 
St. FMP117, New Haven, CT, 06520-8023, USA. kurt.schalper@yale.edu.

BACKGROUND: Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) accounts for 10-15% of all lung 
malignancies and its prognosis is dismal. Although early studies have shown 
promising clinical activity of immune checkpoint blockers, the immune 
composition and expression of potentially actionable immunostimulatory targets 
in this malignancy are poorly understood.
METHODS: Using multiplexed quantitative immunofluorescence (QIF), we measured 
the levels of 3 different B7 family ligands PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and major tumor 
infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) subsets in 90 SCLC samples represented in tissue 
microarray format. Associations between the marker levels, clinicopathological 
variables and survival were studied.
RESULTS: PD-L1 protein was detected in 7.3%, B7-H3 in 64.9% and B7-H4 in 2.6% of 
SCLC cases. The markers showed limited co-expression and were not associated 
with the level of TILs, age, gender and stage. Elevated B7-H4 was associated 
with shorter 5-year overall survival. The levels of CD3+, CD8+ and CD20+ TILs 
and the ratio of total/effector T-cells were significantly lower in SCLC than in 
non-small cell lung cancer. High levels of CD3+, but not CD8+ or CD20+ TILs were 
significantly associated with longer survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our study indicate variable expression and clinical 
role of B7-family ligands in SCLC with predominant expression of the candidate 
target B7-H3 and the presence of a limited cytotoxic anti-tumor immune response. 
These results support the evaluation of B7-H3 blockers and/or pro-inflammatory 
therapies in SCLC.

DOI: 10.1186/s40425-019-0540-1
PMCID: PMC6408760
PMID: 30850021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: All 
tissue was used after approval from the Yale Human Investigation Committee 
protocols #9505008219 and #1608018220, which approved the patient consent forms 
or in some cases waiver of consent. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. 
COMPETING INTERESTS: Kurt Schalper: Consultant or advisor for Celgene, Moderna 
Therapeutics, Shattuck Labs, AstraZeneca, Pierre-Fabre and Abbvie. Research 
funding by Navigate Biopharma, Vasculox/Tioma, Tesaro, Takeda, Moderna 
Therapeutics, Surface Oncology, Pierre-Fabre, Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb. 
David Rimm: Consultant or advisor for Amgen, AstraZeneca, Agendia, Biocept, BMS, 
Cell Signaling Technology, Cepheid, Daiichi Sankyo, GSK, InVicro/Konica/ 
Minolta, Merck, NanoString, Perkin Elmer, PAIGE.AI, and Ultivue. Equity holder 
in PixelGear (start-up company related to direct tissue imaging) Research 
funding from AstraZeneca, Cepheid, Navigate/Novartis, NextCure, Lilly, Ultivue, 
Ventana and Perkin Elmer/Akoya. Mehmet Altan: Research funding from BMS and 
Lilly. Vamsidhar Velcheti: Consultant or advisory role for Genentech, BMS, 
AstraZeneca, Merck, Nektar therapeutics, Reddy Labs, Celgene, Foundation 
Medicine and Takeda Oncology. Roy Herbst: Consultant or advisory role for Abbvie 
Pharmaceuticals, AstraZeneca, Biodesix, Bristol-Myers Squibb , Eli Lilly and 
Company, EMD Serono, Genentech/Roche, Heat Biologics, Loxo Oncology, Merck and 
Company, Nektar, NextCure, Novartis, Pfizer, Sanofi, Seattle Genetics, Shire 
PLC, Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Symphogen, Tesaro, Neon Therapeutics, Infinity 
Pharmaceuticals. Research support from AstraZeneca, Eli Lilly and Company, Merck 
and Company. Member of the board of directors (non-executive/ independent) for 
Junshi Pharmaceuticals. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with 
regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


313. Iran J Immunol. 2019 Mar;16(1):43-52. doi: 10.22034/IJI.2019.39405.

Increased Serum Levels of Soluble B7-H4 in Patients with Systemic Lupus 
Erythematosus.

Xiao JP(1), Wang XR, Zhang S, Wang J, Zhang C, Wang DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, Anhui, China.

BACKGROUND: Members of B7 family are reported to regulate lymphocytes 
activation, transmit both costimulatory and co-inhibitory signals, control T 
cell-mediated immune responses and tolerance. Among which B7-H4 is reported to 
regulate the immune response negatively.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the plasma concentration of soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) and 
its clinical significance in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
METHODS: Fifty-six SLE patients with or without active SLE (ASLE) and 29 age- 
and gender-matched healthy volunteers were recruited. Plasma concentration of 
sB7-H4 was measured using sandwich ELISA kits.
RESULTS: Compared with healthy subjects, the concentration of sB7-H4 was 
significantly higher in patients with SLE (p=0.006). Plasma sB7-H4 concentration 
in patients with lupus nephritis (LN) were also significantly higher than 
healthy subjects (p=0.008), but no difference was found between LN and SLE 
patients without LN (non-LN). Additionally, the sB7-H4 concentration in patients 
was negatively correlated with the SLE disease activity index score (SLEDAI) 
(r=-0.3055, p=0.022). Compared with inactive disease, the concentration of 
sB7-H4 in ASLE patients was significantly lower (p=0.002). There were 
statistical significances between the positive and negative groups with 
decreased leukocytes or thrombocytes (p=0.012; p=0.033; respectively), but no 
statistically significant difference was found in other positive and negative 
serum laboratory indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: The increased level of sB7-H4 in patients suggests that this 
pathway might be involved in the pathogenesis of SLE. However, the exact 
mechanism or physiological role of sB7-H4 in SLE pathogenesis remains to be 
investigated.

DOI: 10.22034/IJI.2019.39405
PMID: 30864554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Biomed Nanotechnol. 2019 May 1;15(5):1043-1051. doi:
10.1166/jbn.2019.2741.

Role of B7-H4 in the Progression and Prognosis of Cervical Inflammation to 
Cancer After Human Papilloma Virus Infection.

Qiu F, Yuan C, Xu J, Zhang J, Chen F, Liu D, Zheng B, Li R, Huang X, Xu J.

The immune checkpoint molecule B7-H4 is highly expressed in various types of 
cancer, but little is known about its role in the development of cervical 
lesions associated with human papilloma virus (HPV). This study aimed to 
investigate the role of B7-H4 in cervical lesion progression and the 
relationship between B7-H4 and HPV infection. This was a retrospective study of 
tissue samples from 30 patients with cervical cancer, 28 with cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), and 75 with cervical inflammatory lesions. 
Serum-soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) was assessed by ELISA. Tissue B7-H4 expression was 
measured by RT-PCR and immunochemistry. Expression of B7-H4 in dendritic cells 
was assessed by flow cytometry. sB7H4 increased gradually from the patients with 
cervical inflammation to patients with cervical cancer and decreased after 
treatment. sB7-H4 had a diagnostic value in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia 
(CIN (area under the curve (AUC) = 0.8929) and cervical cancer (AUC = 0.9545). 
B7-H4 expression in inflammatory cervical tissue and peripheral blood dendritic 
cells (DCs) increased gradually from inflammation to cancer (P < 0.001). sB7-H4 
was positively associated with B7-H4 expression in cervical tissue and DCs and 
with the frequency of CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ regulatory T cells (P < 0.001). The level 
of sB7-H4, and tissue and DC B7-H4 expression were associated with HPV infection 
(P < 0.001). These data strongly support the use of sB7-H4 for monitoring the 
progression of cervical cancer associated with HPV, and for evaluating the 
immune status of the patients.

DOI: 10.1166/jbn.2019.2741
PMID: 30890234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Histopathology. 2019 Sep;75(3):421-430. doi: 10.1111/his.13882. Epub 2019
Jul  12.

PD-L1, B7-H3 and VISTA are highly expressed in gestational trophoblastic 
neoplasia.

Zong L(1)(2), Zhang M(2), Wang W(2), Wan X(1), Yang J(1), Xiang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

AIMS: The B7 family check-point molecules are potential therapeutic targets in 
cancer immunotherapy. However, their expression status in human gestational 
trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) remains unknown. We investigated the expression 
profiles of the B7 family check-point proteins PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3, B7-H4, VISTA 
and B7-H6 in GTN and their clinical significance.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We identified 112 patients with GTN, including 68 with 
choriocarcinoma, 33 with placental-site trophoblastic tumour (PSTT) and 11 with 
epithelioid trophoblastic tumour (ETT). Immunohistochemical staining was 
performed on whole-tissue GTN sections using anti-B7 family antibodies. VISTA 
expression was immunohistochemically analysed using microarrays of normal human 
tissues and of 20 common cancers. PD-L1 and B7-H3 were highly expressed in all 
GTN tumours, while PD-L2 was expressed in 87.5% of the samples. B7-H4 and B7-H6 
were negative in 100% and 98.2% of the samples, respectively. PD-L1, B7-H3 and 
VISTA levels were significantly higher in choriocarcinomas and PSTTs than in 
ETTs. There was no association between B7 family check-point expression in 
tumour cells and disease stage, prognostic score or patient outcomes (complete 
remission versus death). VISTA protein was widely overexpressed in 98.2% of all 
the GTN, but its expression varied in other cancer types and was negative in 
normal adult and fetal tissues except placental trophoblasts and splenic 
lymphocytes.
CONCLUSIONS: The GTN trophoblast cells show high expression of PD-L1, B7-H3 and 
VISTA in a manner that is independent of clinical outcomes. These proteins may 
be potential immunotherapeutic targets when treating GTN.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.13882
PMID: 31013360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Cancers (Basel). 2019 Apr 30;11(5):604. doi: 10.3390/cancers11050604.

High Mannose Binding Lectin (PFL) from Pseudomonas fluorescens Down-Regulates 
Cancer-Associated Integrins and Immune Checkpoint Ligand B7-H4.

Sato Y(1), Matsubara K(2), Kubo T(3), Sunayama H(4), Hatori Y(5), Morimoto K(6), 
Seyama T(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's 
University, Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan. sato-y@yasuda-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Human Life Science Education, Graduate School of Education, 
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima 739-8524, Japan. 
kmatsuba@hiroshima-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's University, 
Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan. kubo-t@yasuda-u.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Pharmaceutical Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's 
University, Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan. sunayama@yasuda-u.ac.jp.
(5)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's University, 
Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan. hatori@yasuda-u.ac.jp.
(6)Department of Medical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's 
University, Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan. mori-k@yasuda-u.ac.jp.
(7)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, Yasuda Women's University, 
Hiroshima 731-0153, Japan. seyama@yasuda-u.ac.jp.

Pseudomonas fluorescens lectin (PFL), which belongs to the high mannose 
(HM)-binding OAAH (Oscillatoria agardhii agglutinin homologue) lectin family, 
induces cancer cell death. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying this 
process have not yet been elucidated. We found that PFL decreased various 
integrins as well as EGFR in cancer cells by promoting internalization and 
autophagic degradation of these molecules, subsequently inducing caspase-8 
dependent cell apoptosis. As revealed by an ex vivo angiogenesis assay using the 
rat aortic model, PFL inhibited neovascularization in a dose-dependent manner, 
which was potentially mediated by down-regulation of endothelium integrins. 
Interestingly, PFL also down-regulated B7-H4 in cancer cells, which has been 
implicated as a negative regulator of T cell-mediated immunity. We found that 
B7-H4 co-localized with β3 integrin in MKN28 gastric cancer cells. siRNA 
silencing of B7-H4 in MKN28 cells decreased expression of β3 integrin, 
suggesting physical and functional association between these molecules. Direct 
interaction of PFL with integrin αvβ3 or B7-H4 was examined by surface plasmon 
resonance analysis, which detected high affinity glycan-dependent binding to 
PFL. These investigations suggest that PFL interaction with cell surface 
integrins is a key process for the anti-cancer activities of PFL.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers11050604
PMCID: PMC6562446
PMID: 31052260

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of data; in the writing of the manuscript; or in the decision to 
publish the results.


317. Dis Markers. 2019 Apr 7;2019:5421985. doi: 10.1155/2019/5421985. eCollection
 2019.

The Expression Patterns and Associated Clinical Parameters of Human Endogenous 
Retrovirus-H Long Terminal Repeat-Associating Protein 2 and Transmembrane and 
Immunoglobulin Domain Containing 2 in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Xiao Y(1), Li H(1), Yang LL(1), Mao L(1), Wu CC(1), Zhang WF(2), Sun ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School & Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

Human endogenous retrovirus-H long terminal repeat-associating protein 2 (HHLA2) 
and transmembrane and immunoglobulin domain containing 2 (TMIGD2) are new immune 
checkpoint molecules of the B7:CD28 family; however, little research has been 
performed on these immune checkpoint molecules. In this study, we used oral 
squamous cells carcinoma (OSCC) tissue microarrays and immunohistochemistry 
methods to investigate the expression patterns of HHLA2 and TMIGD2 in OSCC. 
After comparing the HHLA2 and TMIGD2 expression levels in OSCC, dysplasia, and 
mucosa, we found increased HHLA2 expression in OSCC and dysplasia, while the 
TMIGD2 expression was decreased in OSCC and dysplasia. Using the Kaplan-Meier 
method and log-rank test, we found that higher HHLA2 or TMIGD2 expression levels 
in OSCC indicate poor prognosis. Furthermore, two-tailed Pearson's statistical 
analysis revealed that the HHLA2 expression levels in OSCC, dysplasia, and 
mucosa were positively correlated with the T cell immunoglobulin and 
mucin-domain containing-3 (TIM3), lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG3), B7 
homolog 3 protein (B7-H3), B7 homolog 4 protein (B7H4), and V-domain Ig 
suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA) levels, while the TMIGD2 expression 
levels in OSCC, dysplasia, and mucosa were inversely correlated with the TIM3, 
LAG3, and B7H3 levels. Our current study demonstrates that HHLA2 may serve as an 
immune target for OSCC therapy and that the TMIGD2 expression level in OSCC 
could forecast patient prognosis.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/5421985
PMCID: PMC6476002
PMID: 31089395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Zhonghua Bing Li Xue Za Zhi. 2019 May 8;48(5):352-357. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-5807.2019.05.004.

[Expression of costimulatory molecules B7H3 and B7H4 in T lymphoblastic 
lymphoma/leukemia and clinical significance].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhang GZ(1), Li J(2), Bai WQ(2), Bu P(2), Wang HW(2), Xi YF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Basic Medical College of Shanxi Medical University, 
Taiyuan 030013, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Shanxi Cancer Hospital, Taiyuan 030013, China.

Objective: To investigate the expression of B7H3 and B7H4 in T lymphoblastic 
lymphoma/leukemia (T-LBL/ALL) in correlation with clinicopathological parameters 
and patient prognosis. Methods: Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to detect 
the expression of B7H3 and B7H4 protein in 100 cases of T-LBL/ALL(test group) 
and 30 cases of lymph node reactive hyperplasia (LH) (control group), diagnosed 
at Shanxi Cancer Hospital from January 2001 to June 2017. Real-time RT-PCR was 
used to detect the mRNA expression of B7H3 and B7H4 in 50 cases of T-LBL/ALL and 
30 cases of LH (control group). Results: There were 79 males,21 females. 
Immunohistochemical results showed that the expression rates of B7H3 and B7H4 
were 23%(23/100) and 54%(54/100), respectively. By real-time RT-PCR, the 
relative expression of B7H3 mRNA in the T-LBL/ALL group was 2.5 times of that of 
the LH group. The expression levels of B7H4 mRNA in T-LBL/ALL group and LH group 
were extremely low.Single factor analysis showed that B7H3 protein expression in 
T-LBL/ALL group was associated with B symptoms and primary nodal disease 
(P<0.05). B7H4 protein expression was associated with mediastinal broadening and 
bone marrow involvement (P<0.05). B7H3 protein, B7H3 mRNA, B7H4 protein 
expression and IPI score were associated with prognosis (P<0.05), and the 
combined expression of B7H3 and B7H4 was associated with T-LBL/ALL prognosis 
(P<0.05). Multivariate Cox regression analysis showed that overexpression of 
B7H3 mRNA was an independent risk factor for the prognosis of patients with 
T-LBL/ALL (P<0.05). Conclusion: Expression of B7H3 and B7H4 is closely corelated 
with clinicopathological parameters and prognosis of patients with T-LBL/ALL, 
suggesting that B7H3 and B7H4 expression play an important role in the 
development of T-LBL/ALL.

Publisher: 目的： 
探讨共刺激分子B7H3、B7H4在T淋巴母细胞淋巴瘤/白血病（T-LBL/ALL）中的表达情况，及其与患者临床病理特征及预后的关系。 方法： 
应用免疫组织化学法（IHC）检测2001年1月至2017年6月山西省肿瘤医院诊断的100例T-LBL/ALL（实验组）和30例淋巴结反应性增生（LH，对照组）中B7H3与B7H4蛋白表达，应用即时荧光定量聚合酶链反应（real-time 
RT-PCR）检测50例T-LBL/ALL和30例LH中B7H3 mRNA与B7H4 mRNA的表达。 结果： 
（1）男性患者79例，女性患者21例。IHC：T-LBL/ALL组中B7H3、B7H4蛋白阳性率分别为23%（23/100）与54%（54/100）。（2）real-time 
RT-PCR：T-LBL/ALL组中B7H3 mRNA相对表达是LH组的2.5倍。B7H4 
mRNA在T-LBL/ALL组与LH组中表达量均极低。（3）单因素分析：T-LBL/ALL组中B7H3蛋白表达与出现B症状、原发淋巴结内均有相关性（P<0.05）。B7H4蛋白表达与纵隔增宽、骨髓累犯相关（P<0.05）。B7H3蛋白、B7H3 
mRNA、B7H4蛋白表达和国际预后指数评分与预后相关（P<0.05），且B7H3和B7H4联合表达与T-LBL/ALL预后相关（P<0.05）。（4）多因素Cox回归分析：B7H3 
mRNA表达是影响T-LBL/ALL预后的独立危险因素（P<0.05）。 结论： 
B7H3、B7H4表达与T-LBL/ALL临床病理参数及预后密切相关，提示B7H3、B7H4表达在T-LBL/ALL的发展中起着重要作用。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0529-5807.2019.05.004
PMID: 31104673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. J BUON. 2019 Mar-Apr;24(2):715-719.

RCD24, B7-H4 and PCNA expression and clinical significance in ovarian cancer.

Zheng C(1), Yang R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Suzhou Municipal Hospital, Suzhou, 
China.

PURPOSE: To analyze the correlations of cluster of differentiation 24 (CD24), 
B7-H4 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) with clinicopathological 
indexes of ovarian cancer by detecting the expressions of the three indexes, and 
further explore the clinical value of CD24, B7-H4 and PCNA detection in early 
diagnosis of ovarian cancer and screening of high-risk patients.
METHODS: Gynecological paraffin-embedded blocks archived in the Department of 
Pathology of Suzhou Municipal Hospital from January 2015 to June 2017 were 
selected. There were 30 patients with benign epithelial ovarian tumor and 50 
patients with malignant tumor according to the medical history and pathological 
data. In addition, 20 patients with normal ovarian tissues were enrolled as 
controls. Immunohistochemical streptavidin-peroxidase (SP) method was applied to 
detect CD24, B7-H4 and PCNA in different ovarian tissues, which were ultimately 
analyzed in combination with clinicopathological factors such as grade of 
differentiation and with or without lymph node metastasis.
RESULTS: The expression levels of CD24, B7-H4 and PCNA in ovarian cancer tissues 
were remarkably higher than those in benign ovarian tumor tissues and normal 
ovarian tissues, and the expression levels of the three indexes in poorly- and 
moderately-differentiated ovarian cancer were notably higher than those in 
well-differentiated ovarian cancer (p<0.05). The expressions of CD24, B7-H4 and 
PCNA in ovarian cancer tissues with lymph node metastasis were significantly 
increased compared with those in ovarian cancer tissues without lymph node 
metastasis (p<0.05). The expressions of CD24, B7-H4 and PCNA in ovarian cancer 
tissues were positively correlated with each other (p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The expressions of CD24, B7-H4 and PCNA have correlations with the 
occurrence, development, invasion and metastasis of ovarian cancer, and the 
combined detection may have clinical guiding significance for early diagnosis of 
ovarian cancer and screening of high-risk patients.

PMID: 31128028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Cancer Cell Int. 2019 Jun 14;19:163. doi: 10.1186/s12935-019-0881-3.
eCollection  2019.

Clinical value of detecting IQGAP3, B7-H4 and cyclooxygenase-2 in the diagnosis 
and prognostic evaluation of colorectal cancer.

Cao H(#)(1), Wang Q(#)(1), Gao Z(1), Xu X(1), Lu Q(1), Wu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University and The First People's Hospital of Changzhou, 185 Juqian Street, 
Changzhou, 213000 Jiangsu China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The IQ-motif-containing GTPase-activating protein (IQGAP) family 
comprises three members, IQGAP1, IQGAP2 and IQGAP3. IQGAP3 is the latest 
addition to the family. This study mainly investigated the novel marker IQGAP3 
at serum and tumor tissue levels compared with the markers B7-H4 and 
cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) and in healthy 
individuals, aiming to evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic value of IQGAP3 
for CRC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Serum samples were collected prior to any therapy in 118 
CRC patients and as part of a routine examination in 85 healthy individuals. 
Serum IQGAP3, B7-H4 and COX-2 levels were measured using commercially available 
ELISA kits. Immunohistochemistry was performed to detect the IQGAP3, B7-H4 and 
COX-2 in tumor tissues and normal para-carcinoma tissues. The receiver operating 
characteristics (ROC) curve and the area under the curve (AUC) were used to 
evaluate and compare the diagnostic value of different serum tumor markers. 
Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify the prognostic 
risk factors for CRC.
RESULTS: IQGAP3, B7-H4 and COX-2 showed low or high expression in tumor tissues 
while no expression in normal para-carcinoma tissues. Serum levels of IQGAP3 in 
CRC group were significantly higher than those in healthy control group 
(P < 0.001). The IQGAP3 AUC was 0.799, while the B7-H4 AUC was 0.795 and the 
COX-2 AUC was 0.796. IQGAP3 seemed to be superior to B7-H4 and COX-2 in 
detecting CRC, with the highest sensitivity among the three markers. 
Multivariate analysis showed that T stage, N stage, differentiation degree, TNM 
stage and both serum and tissue IQGAP3, B7-H4 and COX-2 levels were significant 
prognostic factors for CRC.
CONCLUSIONS: IQGAP3 has a better diagnostic efficacy than B7-H4 and COX-2 in 
detecting CRC and it has value in predicting the prognosis of patients with CRC.

DOI: 10.1186/s12935-019-0881-3
PMCID: PMC6570966
PMID: 31223291

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


321. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2019 Sep;158(3):911-919.e6. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2019.04.084. Epub 2019 May 17.

Tumor cellular proliferation is associated with enhanced immune checkpoint 
expression in stage I non-small cell lung cancer.

Mitchell KG(1), Parra ER(2), Nelson DB(1), Zhang J(3), Wistuba II(2), Fujimoto 
J(2), Roth JA(1), Antonoff MB(4); MD Anderson Lung Cancer Immune 
Microenvironment Working Group.

Collaborators: Corsini EM, Vaporciyan AA, Hofstetter WL, Mehran RJ, Swisher SG, 
Rice DC, Sepesi B, Walsh GL, Behrens C, Kalhor N, Weissferdt A, Moran CA, Lee 
JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Tex.
(2)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Tex.
(3)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, University of Texas 
MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Tex.
(4)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Tex. Electronic address: 
MBAntonoff@mdanderson.org.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2019 Sep;158(3):922-923.
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2019 Sep;158(3):920-921.

OBJECTIVES: Ki67 is a marker for tumor proliferative activity and is known to 
have prognostic significance in multiple solid malignancies. We sought to 
characterize the relationships among Ki67 expression, immune cell infiltration, 
and immune checkpoint expression in patients with resected non-small cell lung 
cancer.
METHODS: Specimens of patients undergoing resection of stage I to III non-small 
cell lung cancer (1997-2012) were analyzed using tissue microarrays. 
Proliferative index was quantified as the percentage of malignant cells 
expressing Ki67. Checkpoints expressed on malignant cells (programmed death 
ligand 1, B7H3, B7H4, indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1) and lymphocytes (T-cell 
immunoglobulin and mucin-domain containing 3, V-domain suppressor of T-cell 
activation, tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 4, lymphocyte 
activation gene 3, inducible T-cell co-stimulator) were analyzed in intratumoral 
and stromal compartments, respectively. Immune cell densities were quantified in 
intratumoral and peritumoral compartments in a representative subset.
RESULTS: A total of 190 patients met inclusion criteria. Higher Ki67 expression 
was noted in squamous cell carcinoma (median 31.4% positive malignant cells vs 
15.2% adenocarcinoma, P < .001), advanced-stage tumors (25.7% stages II/III vs 
20.8% stage I, P = .013), and poorly differentiated tumors (28.8% vs 15.4% 
well/moderately, P < .001). Ki67 was positively correlated with intratumoral 
expression of programmed death ligand 1, B7-H3, and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 
1, and elevated stromal expression of lymphocyte activation gene 3 and inducible 
T-cell co-stimulator. Ki67 expression was inversely associated with intratumoral 
densities of CD57+ and CD4+ cells. The relationship between Ki67 and checkpoint 
expression was strongest in stage I tumors. Among patients with stage I, 
increased Ki67 was independently associated with worse overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased Ki67 expression is associated with biologically 
aggressive non-small cell lung cancer, enhanced immune checkpoint expression, 
and reduced intratumoral immune cell infiltration. These findings were strongest 
in early-stage disease and warrant further investigation in the context of novel 
therapeutic agents.

Copyright © 2019 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2019.04.084
PMCID: PMC8073227
PMID: 31235357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Cancer Biomark. 2019;25(3):251-257. doi: 10.3233/CBM-190067.

Combined detection of CA19-9 and B7-H4 in the diagnosis and prognosis of 
pancreatic cancer.

Xu X(1)(1), Xiao Y(2), Hong B(3), Hao B(4), Qian Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Combined Multi-Organ Transplantation, Ministry of Public 
Health, The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, 
Hangzhou, Zhejiang, China.

BACKGROUND: There were no specific indicators for the early detection of 
pancreatic cancer.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the diagnostic and prognostic value of CA19-9 plus B7-H4 
detection in preoperative serum or surgical tissues of patients with pancreatic 
cancer.
METHODS: One hundred and eighty-eight patients with pancreatic cancer and 25 
controls were recruited. Their preoperative serum CA19-9 level was detected 
chemiluminescently, and B7-H4 expression in pancreatic cancer tissues was 
assessed immunohistochemically. The diagnostic and prognostic utility of 
detecting CA19-9, B7-H4 and their combination was evaluated.
RESULTS: CA19-9 and B7-H4 levels were significantly upregulated in patients with 
pancreatic cancer compared with those in controls. The diagnostic value of 
combined CA19-9 plus B7-H4 detection was markedly better than that achieved from 
their separate detection analyzed with receiver operating characteristic curve. 
Sensitivity and specificity of the combined detection in the pancreatic cancer 
group was significantly increased compared with single detection. B7-H4 
detection showed better prognostic value than detection of CA19-9. However, 
CA19-9 had high sensitivity and low specificity, while B7-H4 showed the 
opposite. The sensitivity of the combined prognosis was not significantly 
different to B7-H4 alone.
CONCLUSION: The combined detection of CA19-9 and B7-H4 could become a new method 
for the clinical diagnosis and prognosis of pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.3233/CBM-190067
PMID: 31282407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Int J Med Sci. 2019 Jun 2;16(6):783-792. doi: 10.7150/ijms.33415.
eCollection  2019.

Increased Expression of LAMTOR5 Predicts Poor Prognosis and Is Associated with 
Lymph Node Metastasis of Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Yang QC(1), Wu CC(1), Cao LY(1), Xiao Y(1), Li H(1), Liu B(2), Sun ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
and Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Head Neck Oncology, School & Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

Late endosomal/lysosomal adaptor and MAPK and mTOR activator 5 (LAMTOR5) is a 
novel oncoprotein associated with several human malignancies, but its clinical 
role in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) remains unclear. The 
present study aims to investigate the clinical and pathological significance of 
LAMTOR5 in HNSCC. We utilized immunohistochemical staining of human tissue 
microarrays (210 primary HNSCC, 42 normal oral mucosae, 69 oral epithelial 
dysplasia, and 68 metastasis lymph nodes) to explore the clinical and 
pathological significance of LAMTOR5 in HNSCC. Additionally, expression level of 
LAMTOR5 in immunoreactivity of Pten conditional knock out (Pten cKO) mice HNSCC 
was also assessed. We found LAMTOR5 was overexpressed in human and Pten cKO mice 
HNSCC, and its expression was significantly associated with patients' overall 
survival, lymph node metastasis and lymph node grade. Furthermore, LAMTOR5 
expression was significantly correlated with the expression of p-AktSer473, 
p-S6Ser235/236, immune checkpoints (PD-L1, Galectin 9, VISTA and B7-H4) and 
macrophage markers (CD68 and CD163). In Pten cKO mice HNSCC, it was also 
significantly correlated with VISTA and F4/80. Consequently, we consider that 
high expression of LAMTOR5 might be a poor prognostic indicator and correlated 
with the immunosuppression of tumor microenvironment.

DOI: 10.7150/ijms.33415
PMCID: PMC6643113
PMID: 31337951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


324. Cancer Immunol Res. 2019 Sep;7(9):1440-1456. doi:
10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-18-0709.  Epub 2019 Jul 26.

Blockade of Immune-Checkpoint B7-H4 and Lysine Demethylase 5B in Esophageal 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma Confers Protective Immunity against P. gingivalis 
Infection.

Yuan X(1)(2), Liu Y(1), Li G(3), Lan Z(1), Ma M(3), Li H(4), Kong J(1), Sun 
J(3), Hou G(1), Hou X(2), Ma Y(1), Ren F(5), Zhou F(6), Gao S(7)(2).

Author information:
(1)Henan Key Laboratory of Cancer Epigenetics, Cancer Hospital, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, College of Clinical Medicine, Medical College of Henan 
University of Science and Technology, Luoyang, China.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Hospital, The First Affiliated 
Hospital, College of Clinical Medicine, Medical College of Henan University of 
Science and Technology, Luoyang, China.
(3)Department of Pulmonary Tumor Surgery, Cancer Hospital, The First Affiliated 
Hospital, College of Clinical Medicine, Medical College of Henan University of 
Science and Technology, Luoyang, China.
(4)Queen Mary College, Medical College of Nanchang University, Nanchang, China.
(5)Department of Pathology, Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang, China.
(6)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Anyang Tumor Hospital, Anyang, Henan, China. 
gsgvicepresident@163.com ayzhoufuyou@163.com.
(7)Henan Key Laboratory of Cancer Epigenetics, Cancer Hospital, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, College of Clinical Medicine, Medical College of Henan 
University of Science and Technology, Luoyang, China. gsgvicepresident@163.com 
ayzhoufuyou@163.com.

Pathogens are capable of hijacking immune defense mechanisms, thereby creating a 
tolerogenic environment for hypermutated malignant cells that arise within the 
site of infection. Immune checkpoint-oriented immunotherapies have shown 
considerable promise. Equally important, the epigenetic reprogramming of an 
immune-evasive phenotype that activates the immune system in a synergistic 
manner can improve immunotherapy outcomes. These advances have led to 
combinations of epigenetic- and immune-based therapeutics. We previously 
demonstrated that Porphyromonas gingivalis isolated from esophageal squamous 
cell carcinoma (ESCC) lesions represents a major pathogen associated with this 
deadly disease. In this study, we examined the mechanisms associated with host 
immunity during P. gingivalis infection and demonstrated that experimentally 
infected ESCC responds by increasing the expression of B7-H4 and lysine 
demethylase 5B, which allowed subsequent in vivo analysis of the 
immunotherapeutic effects of anti-B7-H4 and histone demethylase inhibitors in 
models of chronic infection and immunity against xenografted human tumors. Using 
three different preclinical mouse models receiving combined therapy, we showed 
that mice mounted strong resistance against P. gingivalis infection and tumor 
challenge. This may have occurred via generation of a T cell-mediated response 
in the microenvironment and formation of immune memory. In ESCC subjects, 
coexpression of B7-H4 and KDM5B correlated more significantly with bacterial 
load than with the expression of either molecule alone. These results highlight 
the unique ability of P. gingivalis to evade immunity and define potential 
targets that can be exploited therapeutically to improve the control of P. 
gingivalis infection and the development of associated neoplasia.

©2019 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-18-0709
PMID: 31350278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Infect Agent Cancer. 2019 Aug 8;14:20. doi: 10.1186/s13027-019-0234-9. 
eCollection 2019.

B7-H4 is highly expressed in aggressive Epstein-Barr virus positive diffuse 
large B-cell lymphoma and inhibits apoptosis through upregulating Erk1/2 and Akt 
signalling pathways.

Jiang Y(1), Cai G(2), Lin J(3), Zhang J(4), Bo Z(1), Li Y(1), Wang C(1), Tong 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Hematology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 100 Haining Road, Shanghai, 200080 People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Hematology, JinHua Hospital of TCM, 439 Shuangxi West Road, 
Jinhua, 321017 People's Republic of China.
(3)3Department of Pathology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 100 Haining Road, Shanghai, 200080 People's 
Republic of China.
(4)4Department of Integrated Therapy, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, 
270 Dongan Road, Shanghai, 200032 People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4 is among the B7 family members which may serve as a new 
targetable immune checkpoint molecule. It was reported that high level of serum 
B7-H4 level may be correlated with lymphoma. Nevertheless, the role of B7-H4 in 
Epstein-Barr Virus-Positive diffuse large B cell lymphoma (EBV+DLBCL) has not 
been addressed although it has been suggested that B7-H4 could promote tumor 
growth and metastatic progression in certain cancers.
METHODS: Between January 2005 and November 2017 at the department of Hematology, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine affiliated Shanghai General 
Hospital 260 DLBCL samples were analyzed for EBV-encoded small RNA (EBV-EBER) by 
in situ hybridization. The expression level of B7-H4 in DLBCL tumor tissue was 
evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Furthermore, the role of B7-H4 in DLBCL was 
further investigated in DLBCL cell line.
RESULTS: EBV+DLBCL patients suffered from markedly lower overall survival (OS) 
and progression-free survival (PFS) rates in our study. We showed that B7-H4 was 
significantly overexpressed in 16 EBV+-subgroup cases out of 260 DLBCL patients. 
We further found that EBV infection in lymphoblast cells led to enhanced 
expression of B7-H4 followed by increased cell viability and reduced apoptosis. 
In contrast, inhibition of B7-H4 simultaneously impaired cell viability and 
induced apoptosis. Mechanistically, inhibiting B7-H4 resulted in decreased 
phosphorylation Erk 1/2 and Akt.
CONCLUSION: Our study reveals a critical role of B7-H4 in EBV+DLBCL development 
by regulating cell survival and apoptosis through the Erk and Akt signalling 
pathways. Targetting B7-H4 may be promising in the therapy of EBV+DLBCL.

DOI: 10.1186/s13027-019-0234-9
PMCID: PMC6686556
PMID: 31406503

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


326. JCI Insight. 2019 Oct 3;4(19):e127716. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.127716.

Donor and host B7-H4 expression negatively regulates acute graft-versus-host 
disease lethality.

Saha A(1), Taylor PA(1), Lees CJ(1), Panoskaltsis-Mortari A(1), Osborn MJ(1), 
Feser CJ(1), Thangavelu G(1), Melchinger W(2), Refaeli Y(3), Hill GR(4), Munn 
DH(5), Murphy WJ(6), Serody JS(7), Maillard I(8), Kreymborg K(9), van den Brink 
M(9), Dong C(10), Huang S(11), Zang X(11), Allison JP(12), Zeiser R(2), Blazar 
BR(1).

Author information:
(1)Masonic Cancer Center and Department of Pediatrics, Division of Blood and 
Marrow Transplantation, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Department of Hematology, Oncology, and Stem-Cell Transplantation, Freiburg 
University Medical Center, Albert Ludwigs University Freiburg, Freiburg, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University of Colorado, Aurora, Colorado, USA.
(4)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington, USA.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Georgia Health Sciences University, Augusta, 
Georgia, USA.
(6)Department of Dermatology, UC Davis School of Medicine, Sacramento, 
California, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA.
(8)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 
USA.
(9)Department of Immunology and Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, USA.
(10)Institute for Immunology and School of Medicine, Tsinghua University, 
Beijing, China.
(11)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, New York, USA.
(12)Department of Immunology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA.

B7-H4 is a negative regulatory B7 family member. We investigated the role of 
host and donor B7-H4 in regulating acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). 
Allogeneic donor T cells infused into B7-H4-/- versus WT recipients markedly 
accelerated GVHD-induced lethality. Chimera studies pointed toward B7-H4 
expression on host hematopoietic cells as more critical than parenchymal cells 
in controlling GVHD. Rapid mortality in B7-H4-/- recipients was associated with 
increased donor T cell expansion, gut T cell homing and loss of intestinal 
epithelial integrity, increased T effector function (proliferation, 
proinflammatory cytokines, cytolytic molecules), and reduced apoptosis. Higher 
metabolic demands of rapidly proliferating donor T cells in B7-H4-/- versus WT 
recipients required multiple metabolic pathways, increased extracellular 
acidification rates (ECARs) and oxygen consumption rates (OCRs), and increased 
expression of fuel substrate transporters. During GVHD, B7-H4 expression was 
upregulated on allogeneic WT donor T cells. B7-H4-/- donor T cells given to WT 
recipients increased GVHD mortality and had function and biological properties 
similar to WT T cells from allogeneic B7-H4-/- recipients. Graft-versus-leukemia 
responses were intact regardless as to whether B7-H4-/- mice were used as hosts 
or donors. Taken together, these data provide new insights into the negative 
regulatory processes that control GVHD and provide support for developing 
therapeutic strategies directed toward the B7-H4 pathway.

DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.127716
PMCID: PMC6795410
PMID: 31578305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors have declared 
that no conflict of interest exists.


327. J Clin Med. 2019 Oct 1;8(10):1566. doi: 10.3390/jcm8101566.

Correlation between B7-H4 and Survival of Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Patients 
Treated with Nivolumab.

Genova C(1), Boccardo S(2), Mora M(3), Rijavec E(4), Biello F(5), Rossi G(6), 
Tagliamento M(7), Dal Bello MG(8), Coco S(9), Alama A(10), Vanni I(11), Barletta 
G(12), Bianchi R(13), Maggioni C(14), Bruzzi P(15), Grossi F(16).

Author information:
(1)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. carlo.genova@hsanmartino.it.
(2)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. simona.boccardo@hsanmartino.it.
(3)Pathology Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. marco.mora@hsanmartino.it.
(4)Medical Oncology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore 
Policlinico, Via Francesco Sforza, 28, 20122 Milan, Italy. ery80x@yahoo.it.
(5)Oncology Unit, Ospedale Maggiore della Carità, Corso Mazzini 18, 28100 
Novara, Italy. febiello@gmail.com.
(6)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. giovanni.rossi.1689@gmail.com.
(7)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. tagliamento.marco@gmail.com.
(8)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. mariagiovanna.dalbello@hsanmartino.it.
(9)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. simona.coco@hsanmartino.it.
(10)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna 
Benzi 10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. angela.alama@hsanmartino.it.
(11)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna 
Benzi 10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. irenevanni85@yahoo.it.
(12)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna 
Benzi 10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. giulia.barletta@yahoo.it.
(13)Pathology Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 
10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. bianchirita22@gmail.com.
(14)Lung Cancer Unit, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna 
Benzi 10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. claudia_87m@yahoo.it.
(15)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Clinical Trials, IRCCS 
Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, Largo Rosanna Benzi 10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. 
paolo_bruzzi@libero.it.
(16)Medical Oncology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore 
Policlinico, Via Francesco Sforza, 28, 20122 Milan, Italy. 
francesco.grossi@policlinico.mi.it.

Reliable predictors of benefit from immune checkpoint inhibitors in 
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are still limited. We aimed to evaluate the 
association between the expression of selected molecules involved in immune 
response and clinical outcomes in NSCLC patients receiving nivolumab. In our 
study, the outcomes of 46 NSCLC patients treated with nivolumab in second or 
subsequent lines (Nivolumab Cohort) were compared with the expression of PD-L1, 
PD-L2, PD-1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 assessed by immunohistochemistry (IHC). Samples 
from 17 patients (37.0%) in the Nivolumab Cohort were positive for B7-H4 
expression. At univariate analyses, only B7-H4 expression was associated with 
significantly decreased progression-free survival (PFS; 1.7 vs. 2.0 months; p = 
0.026) and with a disadvantage in terms of overall survival (OS) close to 
statistical significance (4.4 vs. 9.8 months; p = 0.064). At multivariate 
analyses, B7-H4 expression was significantly associated with decreased PFS 
(hazard ratio (HR) = 2.28; p = 0.021) and OS (HR = 2.38; p = 0.022). 
Subsequently, B7-H4 expression was compared with clinical outcomes of 27 NSCLC 
patients receiving platinum-based chemotherapy (Chemotherapy Cohort), but no 
significant association was observed. Our results suggest a negative predictive 
role of B7-H4 in a population of NSCLC treated with immune checkpoint 
inhibitors, which deserves further research.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm8101566
PMCID: PMC6832616
PMID: 31581482

Conflict of interest statement: C.G. received honoraria from Astra Zeneca, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Roche; E.R. 
received honoraria from Astra Zeneca; G.B. is currently employed from Astra 
Zeneca; F.G. received honoraria from AMGEN, Astra Zeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Celgene, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Pfizer, Pierre Fabre, Roche. 
The other authors declare no conflict of interest.


328. Int J Biol Markers. 2019 Dec;34(4):373-380. doi: 10.1177/1724600819881147.
Epub  2019 Oct 14.

The prognostic value of B7H1 and B7H4 expression in pancreatic cancer: A 
meta-analysis.

Qi ZJ(1), Yu D(2), Chen CH(3), Jiang H(1), Li R(4), Kang YM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Nangang Brach, Heilongjiang Provincial Hospital, 
Harbin, Heilongjiang, China.
(2)Division III, Department of Gastroenterology, Nangang Brach, Heilongjiang 
Provincial Hospital, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China.
(3)Division III, Department of Oncology, General Hospital of Heilongjiang 
Province Land Reclamation Bureau, Harbin, Heilongjiang, China.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Harbin Red Cross Central Hospital, Harbin, 
Heilongjiang, China.

OBJECTIVE: The clinical implications of B7H1 and B7H4 in pancreatic cancer have 
been described however, the prognostic significance of these genes in pancreatic 
cancer patients remains inconclusive. The aim of the present study was to 
evaluate the prognostic role of B7H1 and B7H4 in pancreatic cancer patients.
METHODS: Electronic databases (PubMed, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library) were 
searched for relevant articles published before May 2019. Meta-analyses were 
performed by pooling the hazard ratios (HRs) between overall survival or 
cancer-specific survival and high or low expression of B7H1/B7H4 in pancreatic 
cancer patients. Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were performed, and sources 
of variabilities were explored by performing meta-regression.
RESULTS: Sixteen studies (1434 patients' data) were included. Compared with low 
expression, high expression of B7H1 was associated with significantly poor 
overall survival (HR 1.92 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.35, 2.74); P<0.001) 
and cancer-specific survival (HR 2.46 (95% CI 1.55, 3.90); P<0.001). High 
expression of B7H4 also predicted poor overall survival (HR 2.38 (95% CI 1.89, 
3.00); P<0.001). In subgroup analyses, a significant association between B7H1 
and overall survival was observed for trials conducted in China (HR 2.08 (95% CI 
1.29, 3.34)) but not in Japan (HR 1.98 (95% CI 1.33, 2.96)); or in studies with 
<50% patients having high expression (HR 2.02 (95% CI 1.40, 2.91)) but not in 
studies with >50% patients with high expression (HR 1.40 (95% CI 0.87, 2.26)).
CONCLUSION: The current study suggests that high B7H1 and B7H4 expression is 
associated with a poor prognosis in pancreatic cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1177/1724600819881147
PMID: 31608800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Nat Immunol. 2019 Nov;20(11):1425-1434. doi: 10.1038/s41590-019-0512-0. Epub
 2019 Oct 14.

Inhibitory receptors and ligands beyond PD-1, PD-L1 and CTLA-4: breakthroughs or 
backups.

Andrews LP(1), Yano H(1)(2), Vignali DAA(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Graduate Program of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Immunology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. dvignali@pitt.edu.
(4)Tumor Microenvironment Center, UPMC Hillman Cancer Center, Pittsburgh, PA, 
USA. dvignali@pitt.edu.

Although immunotherapeutics targeting the inhibitory receptors (IRs) CTLA-4, 
PD-1 or PD-L1 have made substantial clinical progress in cancer, a considerable 
proportion of patients remain unresponsive to treatment. Targeting novel 
IR-ligand pathways in combination with current immunotherapies may improve 
clinical outcomes. New clinical immunotherapeutics target T cell-expressed IRs 
(LAG-3, TIM-3 and TIGIT) as well as inhibitory ligands in the B7 family (B7-H3, 
B7-H4 and B7-H5), although many of these targets have complex biologies and 
unclear mechanisms of action. With only modest clinical success in targeting 
these IRs, current immunotherapeutic design may not be optimal. This Review 
covers the biology of targeting novel IR-ligand pathways and the current 
clinical status of their immunotherapeutics, either as monotherapy or in 
combination with antibody to PD-1 or to its ligand PD-L1. Further understanding 
of the basic biology of these targets is imperative to the development of 
effective cancer immunotherapies.

DOI: 10.1038/s41590-019-0512-0
PMID: 31611702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Sci Rep. 2019 Oct 16;9(1):14854. doi: 10.1038/s41598-019-51253-2.

Downregulation of B7-H4 suppresses tumor progression of hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Dong L(1)(2), Xie L(1), Li M(3), Dai H(1), Wang X(4), Wang P(1), Zhang Q(3), Liu 
W(1), Hu X(5), Zhao M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Imaging, Binzhou Medical University, Binzhou, Shandong, 264003, 
P.R. China.
(2)Department of Radiology, Binzhou Medical University Hospital, Binzhou, 
Shandong, 256603, P.R. China.
(3)Medicine & Pharmacy Research Center, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 
Shandong, 264003, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Oral Pathology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, Shandong, 
264003, P.R. China.
(5)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, Shandong, 
264003, P.R. China. xue-mei-hu@163.com.
(6)Department of Imaging, Binzhou Medical University, Binzhou, Shandong, 264003, 
P.R. China. mingdongzhao@126.com.

B7-H4, as a member of the B7 superfamily, was overexpressed in various types of 
cancers. However, the effects of B7-H4 on the aggressiveness of HCC and the 
underlying mechanisms have not yet been fully explored. For this purpose, B7-H4 
expression was detected by Flow cytometry and Western blotting, it was highly 
expressed in several HCC cell lines but not in normal LO2 cell line. Knockdown 
B7-H4 expression induced HCC cells apoptosis by flow cytometry and colony 
formation assays and increased several apoptosis-related proteins, including 
survivin, cleaved caspase-3, cleaved caspase-7, and Bax, while the pro-growth 
protein survivin was reduced. Then the proliferation and cell cycle were 
suppressed after treated by siB7-H4. Moreover, the level of B7-H4 was 
significantly correlated with cell migration. In vivo, intra-tumor injection of 
siRNA targeting B7-H4 can significantly inhibited the growth of HepG2 cells in 
nude mice. Finally, regions of interest were manually traced on T1WI, T2WI, DWI 
and ADC of MR images. ADC values were increased in HCC xenografts after B7-H4 
siRNA treatment. These data indicated that downregulation of B7-H4 suppressed 
the proliferation and migration and promoted apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. 
Blocking the B7-H4 channel might be a potential therapeutic strategy for HCC.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-019-51253-2
PMCID: PMC6795893
PMID: 31619714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


331. Clin Exp Med. 2020 Feb;20(1):79-86. doi: 10.1007/s10238-019-00590-7. Epub
2019  Oct 29.

B7-H4 facilitates proliferation and metastasis of colorectal carcinoma cell 
through PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway.

Li C(#)(1), Zhan Y(#)(1)(2), Ma X(1), Fang H(1), Gai X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Beihua University Faculty of Medicine, No. 3999 
Binjiang East Road, Jilin, 132013, Jilin, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Jingmen No. 1 People's Hospital, Jingmen, 448000, 
Hubei, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Beihua University Faculty of Medicine, No. 3999 
Binjiang East Road, Jilin, 132013, Jilin, People's Republic of China. 
bhdxgaixiaodong@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

B7-H4 is over-expressed in various tumors and may affect many aspects of cancer 
biology. Our previous studies have reported that the over-expressed B7-H4 in 
serum or tumor tissue of colorectal carcinoma (CRC) patients was closely related 
to CRC progression. However, B7-H4 in cell biological characteristics of CRC is 
not well studied. Here, we investigate the effect of the B7-H4 on cell 
proliferation, migration and its expression regulated by PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling 
pathway in CRC. Firstly, pSilencer 4.1-B7-H4-shRNA vector was constructed and 
stable transfection was performed on HT-29 cells. Secondly, cell proliferation, 
cell cycle, cell apoptosis and cell migration were evaluated after B7-H4 
silencing, and the expression of Bcl-2, caspase-3, MMP-2 and MMP-9 was also 
measured. Finally, the regulation of B7-H4 by PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway 
was measured followed by treatment with or without PI3K/Akt and mTOR inhibitor. 
The results showed that the viability of HT-29 cells was significantly decreased 
after B7-H4 silencing (P < 0.05). B7-H4 silencing significantly increased the 
apoptosis rate and caspase-3 protein expression while decreased Bcl-2 protein 
expression (P all < 0.05). B7-H4 silencing also significantly reduced the 
migration of HT-29 cells (P < 0.01) and the secretion of MMP-2 or MMP-9 (P 
all < 0.05). Following treatment with PI3K/Akt and mTOR inhibitor in HT-29 
cells, the expression of B7-H4 was significantly downregulated compared with 
untreated group (P all < 0.05). Our results strongly suggest that B7-H4 may be 
involved in cell proliferation and migration by PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway. 
Therefore, blocking B7-H4 signaling might be a novel treatment strategy for CRC.

DOI: 10.1007/s10238-019-00590-7
PMID: 31664539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Tuberculosis (Edinb). 2019 Dec;119:101877. doi: 10.1016/j.tube.2019.101877.
Epub  2019 Oct 11.

High expression of BTLA and B7-H4 on the surface of myeloid dendritic cells has 
a negative regulatory effect on their anti-tuberculosis immunity activity in 
pleural tuberculosis patients.

Cai X(1), Ge N(2), Rong R(2), Lu Y(3), Zhang J(3), Xu J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Dongguan Houjie Hospital Affiliated to 
Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 523945, China. Electronic address: 
imcaixiaozhen@163.com.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Dongguan Houjie Hospital Affiliated to 
Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 523945, China.
(3)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 
523808, Guangdong, China.
(4)Institute of Laboratory Medicine, Guangdong Medical University, Dongguan, 
523808, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: imxujunfa@163.com.

To investigate the effects of the surface markers B- and T-lymphocyte attenuator 
(BTLA) and B7 homologous body 4 (B7-H4) on expression of CD83, and Human 
Leukocyte Antigen-DR isotype (HLA-DR) that can activate dendritic cells (DCs). 
Flow cytometry was used to detect the co-expression of BTLA and B7-H4 on myeloid 
DCs (mDCs) in peripheral blood (PB) and pleural effusions (PE) in 15 volunteers 
and 20 tuberculous pleurisy (TP) patients. Co-expression of BTLA and B7-H4 
(double positive (DP)) mDCs in PB and PE of TP patients were enhanced. The 
proportion of DP mDC in PB decreased markedly after 2 weeks treatment, but was 
still greater than in controls. Expression of CD83 and HLA-DR on DP mDCs was 
higher than on BTLA and B7-H4 double negative (DN) expressing mDCs in PB of 
different TP groups. Expression of CD83 on DP mDCs in PB and PE of TP patients 
was greater than that of controls. Expression of HLA-DR on DP mDCs in TP patient 
PB was lower than in TP PE and controls. In pleural tuberculosis (TB) patients, 
high expression of BTLA and B7-H4 promoted a high level of CD83 and HLA-DR, 
which had a negative regulatory effect on mDCs on anti-TB immunity.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tube.2019.101877
PMID: 31677529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Trends Pharmacol Sci. 2019 Nov;40(11):883-896. doi:
10.1016/j.tips.2019.09.008.  Epub 2019 Oct 31.

The B7x Immune Checkpoint Pathway: From Discovery to Clinical Trial.

John P(1), Wei Y(1), Liu W(2), Du M(3), Guan F(4), Zang X(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, New York, NY 10461, USA.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY 
10461, USA.
(3)Hospital of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Fudan University Shanghai Medical 
College, Shanghai 200011, China.
(4)School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, Henan, 
China.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, New York, NY 10461, USA; Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein 
College of Medicine, New York, NY 10461, USA; Department of Urology, Albert 
Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY 10461, USA. Electronic address: 
xingxing.zang@einstein.yu.edu.

B7x (B7 homolog x, also known as B7-H4, B7S1, and VTCN1) was discovered by 
ourselves and others in 2003 as the seventh member of the B7 family. It is an 
inhibitory immune checkpoint of great significance to human disease. 
Tissue-expressed B7x minimizes autoimmune and inflammatory responses. It is 
overexpressed in a broad spectrum of human cancers, where it suppresses 
antitumor immunity. Further, B7x and PD-L1 tend to have mutually exclusive 
expression in cancer cells. Therapeutics targeting B7x are effective in animal 
models of cancers and autoimmune disorders, and early-phase clinical trials are 
underway to determine the efficacy and safety of targeting B7x in human 
diseases. It took 15 years moving from the discovery of B7x to clinical trials. 
Further studies will be necessary to identify its receptors, reveal its 
physiological functions in organs, and combine therapies targeting B7x with 
other treatments.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tips.2019.09.008
PMCID: PMC6907741
PMID: 31677920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Pathol Res Pract. 2019 Dec;215(12):152684. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2019.152684.
Epub  2019 Oct 7.

Expression of co-inhibitory molecules B7-H4 and B7-H1 in Epstein-Barr virus 
positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and their roles in tumor invasion.

Jiang Y(1), Lin J(2), Zhang J(3), Lu S(4), Wang C(5), Tong Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 100 Haining Road, Shanghai, 200080, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 100 Haining Road, Shanghai, 200080, China.
(3)Department of Integrated Therapy, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, 
270 Dongan Road, Shanghai, 200032, China; Department of Oncology, Shanghai 
Medical College, Fudan University, 138 Yi xue yuan Road, Shanghai, 200032, 
China.
(4)Department of Hematology, Renji Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, 160 Pujian Road, Shanghai 200127, China.
(5)Department of Hematology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 100 Haining Road, Shanghai, 200080, China. 
Electronic address: wangchunsgh@126.com.
(6)Department of Hematology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, 100 Haining Road, Shanghai, 200080, China. 
Electronic address: tongyin_cn2@hotmail.com.

To investigate the relationship between immunoregulatory molecules B7-H4 and 
B7-H1 in Epstein-Barr positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (EBV+DLBCL). 
Immunohistochemistry was used to detect the expression of B7-H4 and B7-H1 in 
tumor tissues of 13 patients with EBV+DLBCL. The expression levels of B7-H4 and 
B7-H1 in four diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cell lines (SU-DHL-4, SU-DHL-10, 
SU-DHL-6, Pfeiffer) were analyzed by flow cytometry. Transwell invasion assays 
were conducted to observe the invasive ability of cell lines. B7-H4 and B7-H1 
were expressed in 84.62% and 100% tumor specimens of EBV+DLBCL. The 
overexpression of B7-H4 and B7-H1 was found in 46.15% and 23.08% tumor samples 
of EBV+DLBCL. There was a medium negative correlation between the expression 
levels of B7-H4 and B7-H1 (r = -0.667, P = 0.013, spearman rank correlation). 
The expression levels of B7-H1 in four diffuse large B-cell lymphoma cell lines 
were positively correlated with their invasive ability, whereas the expression 
levels of B7-H4 were not. Here, we provide evidence for the negative 
relationship between B7-H4 and B7-H1 in EBV+DLBCL. The expression of B7-H1 in 
EBV+DLBCL appears to be the dominant factor which affects tumor aggressiveness. 
When B7-H1 expression weakens, the molecule B7-H4 may become the dominant factor 
of prognosis in patients with EBV+DLBCL.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2019.152684
PMID: 31679792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Oncotarget. 2019 Oct 22;10(58):6152-6167. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.27247. 
eCollection 2019 Oct 22.

Extramammary Paget disease shows differential expression of B7 family members 
B7-H3, B7-H4, PD-L1, PD-L2 and cancer/testis antigens NY-ESO-1 and MAGE-A.

Pourmaleki M(1), Young JH(2)(3), Socci ND(4), Chiang S(2), Edelweiss M(2), Li 
Y(2), Zhang M(2), Roshal L(2), Chi DS(5), Busam KJ(2), Mellinghoff IK(1)(6), 
Hollmann TJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Human Oncology and Pathogenesis Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY 10065, USA.
(2)Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10065, USA.
(3)Present address: School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, USA.
(4)Bioinformatics Core, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10065, USA.
(5)Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10065, USA.
(6)Neurology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10065, USA.

Extramammary Paget disease (EMPD) is a rare cutaneous adenocarcinoma of the 
anogenital region most commonly treated with surgical excision. Surgical margin 
clearance is often problematic and recurrence rates remain high indicating the 
need for additional therapeutic options. Topical immunomodulators have been used 
with reported success suggesting EMPD may respond to other immunotherapies. This 
study investigates EMPD protein expression of targetable B7 family members and 
cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) B7-H3, B7-H4, PD-L1, PD-L2, MAGE-A, and NY-ESO-1 
and components of antigen presenting machinery B2M and MHC-I. Fifty-seven 
specimens from 48 patients (31 female and 17 male), representing in situ, 
invasive, and metastatic disease of primary and secondary origin were stained 
and scored (627 total slides). The percentage of cases expressing each immune 
regulatory molecule in the in situ followed by invasive tumor components was: 
B7-H3 (94, 90), B7-H4 (82, 78), PD-L1 (6, 10), MAGE-A (39, 50), NY-ESO-1 (16, 
20), B2M (100, 89), and MHC-I (78, 79). PD-L2 was negative in all cases. There 
was high correlation between marker expression within the in situ and invasive 
tumor components of the same case. B7-H4 was preferentially expressed in primary 
cutaneous EMPD. Co-expression of B7 family members B7-H3 and B7-H4 was found 
within the in situ and invasive tumor components of 74% and 48% of cases, 
respectively. These findings provide an initial characterization of EMPD tumor 
cell expression of B7-H3, B7-H4, PD-L1, PD-L2, MAGE-A, and NY-ESO-1 and indicate 
the potential for new immunotherapeutic options for patients with EMPD.

Copyright: © 2019 Pourmaleki et al.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.27247
PMCID: PMC6817453
PMID: 31692889

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST T. Hollmann reports 
research funding from General Electric. I. Mellinghoff reports research funding 
from General Electric, Amgen, and Lilly; consulting or advisory roles with 
Agios, Puma Biotechnology, and Debiopharm Group; honoraria for participation in 
a seminar presentation from Roche. D. Chi reports advisory roles with Bovie 
Medical Co., Verthermia Inc., stock holdings in Intuitive Surgical Inc. and 
being Chief editor of C. Surgeries.


336. J Immunother Cancer. 2019 Nov 8;7(1):293. doi: 10.1186/s40425-019-0753-3.

Distinct tumor microenvironments of lytic and blastic bone metastases in 
prostate cancer patients.

Ihle CL(1)(2), Provera MD(2), Straign DM(2), Smith EE(2), Edgerton SM(2), Van 
Bokhoven A(2), Lucia MS(2), Owens P(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Biology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, CO, 
80045, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, CO, 80045, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, CO, 80045, USA. philip.owens@cuanschutz.edu.
(4)Research Service, Department of Veterans Affairs, Eastern Colorado Health 
Care System, Aurora, CO, 80045, USA. philip.owens@cuanschutz.edu.

The most common metastatic lesions of prostate cancer are in bone and can be 
classified into three distinct pathology subtypes: lytic, blastic, and an 
indeterminate mixture of both. We investigated a cohort of decalcified 
formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE) patient specimens from the bone that 
contained metastatic prostate cancer with lytic or blastic features. These 
tissue sections were utilized for immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining, isolation 
of RNA for gene expression, and Digital Spatial Profiling (DSP) of changes in 
both the tumor and microenvironment. A diverse set of unique immune cell 
populations and signaling pathways to both lytic and blastic types of prostate 
cancer metastases were present. In blastic lesions immune cells were enriched 
for pSTAT3 and components of the JAK-STAT pathway. In lytic-type lesions, immune 
cells were enriched for pAKT activity and components of the PI3K-AKT pathway. 
Enrichment for immune checkpoints including PD-L1, B7-H4, OX40L, and IDO-1 were 
identified in blastic prostate cancer, providing new therapeutic targets for 
patients with bone metastases. Biopsies could guide selection of patients into 
appropriate therapeutic interventions based on protein levels and RNA expression 
of desired targets in metastatic disease. Molecular pathology has been an 
excellent complement to the diagnosis, treatment, and management of primary 
tumors and could be successfully extended to patients with metastatic lesions.

DOI: 10.1186/s40425-019-0753-3
PMCID: PMC6839115
PMID: 31703602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


337. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2020 Nov/Dec;28(10):767-775. doi: 
10.1097/PAI.0000000000000817.

Associations of B7-H3 and B7-H4 Expression in Ductal Carcinoma In Situ of the 
Breast With Clinicopathologic Features and T-Cell Infiltration.

Kim NI(1), Park MH(2), Lee JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology.
(2)Surgery, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, South Korea.

B7-H3 and B7-H4 play an inhibitory role in T-cell function by limiting 
proliferation and cytokine production. Information about B7-H3 and B7-H4 
expression in ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) remains uncertain. The objective 
of this study was to evaluate the expression levels of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in DCIS 
and their associations with clinicopathologic features and T-cell infiltration. 
B7-H3 and B7-H4 mRNA and protein expression levels in 8 pairs of DCIS tissues 
and matched normal adjacent tissues were examined by RNAscope in situ 
hybridization and immunohistochemistry analysis. Immunohistochemical staining of 
B7-H3, B7-H4, CD3, and CD8 was performed for 79 DCIS samples using tissue 
microarray. RNAscope in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry analysis 
revealed that expression levels of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in DCIS tissues were higher 
than those in corresponding normal tissues. B7-H3 and B7-H4 mRNA and protein 
appeared to be mainly expressed in DCIS carcinoma cells. High B7-H3 and B7-H4 
expression was observed in 58 (73.4%) and 62 (78.5%) cases with DCIS, 
respectively. High B7-H3 expression was significantly associated with 
high-nuclear grade and presence of comedo-type necrosis (both P<0.05). B7-H3 
expression in HR/HER2 subtype was higher than that in HR/HER2 subtype (P<0.05). 
B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression levels were negatively related to the density of CD3 
and CD8 T-cell infiltrates. B7-H3 and B7-H4 may play an important role in immune 
surveillance mechanisms of DCIS. They might be useful targets to develop 
immune-based therapy to alter or prevent DCIS progression.

DOI: 10.1097/PAI.0000000000000817
PMID: 31714284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Immunother Cancer. 2019 Nov 13;7(1):298. doi: 10.1186/s40425-019-0752-4.

Development and validation of an immune checkpoint-based signature to predict 
prognosis in nasopharyngeal carcinoma using computational pathology analysis.

Wang YQ(1), Zhang Y(2), Jiang W(3), Chen YP(1), Xu SY(4), Liu N(1), Zhao Y(1), 
Li L(4), Lei Y(1), Hong XH(1), Liang YL(1), Li JY(1), Zhang LL(5), Yun JP(2), 
Sun Y(1), Li YQ(6), Ma J(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South 
China, Collaborative Innovation Center of Cancer Medicine, Guangdong Key 
Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis and Therapy, Sun Yat-sen 
University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, 510060, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State Key 
Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center of Cancer 
Medicine, Guangzhou, 510060, Guangdong, China.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical 
University, 15 Lequn Road, Guilin, 541001, China.
(4)Department of Medical Imaging, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, State 
Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center of 
Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 510060, Guangdong, China.
(5)Department of Molecular Diagnostics, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, 
State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Collaborative Innovation Center 
of Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 510060, Guangdong, China.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South 
China, Collaborative Innovation Center of Cancer Medicine, Guangdong Key 
Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis and Therapy, Sun Yat-sen 
University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, 510060, People's Republic of China. 
liyingq@sysucc.org.cn.
(7)Department of Radiation Oncology, State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South 
China, Collaborative Innovation Center of Cancer Medicine, Guangdong Key 
Laboratory of Nasopharyngeal Carcinoma Diagnosis and Therapy, Sun Yat-sen 
University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, 510060, People's Republic of China. 
majun2@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy, especially immune checkpoint inhibition, has provided 
powerful tools against cancer. We aimed to detect the expression of common 
immune checkpoints and evaluate their prognostic values in nasopharyngeal 
carcinoma (NPC).
METHODS: The expression of 9 immune checkpoints consistent with 13 features was 
detected in the training cohort (n = 208) by immunohistochemistry and quantified 
by computational pathology. Then, the LASSO cox regression model was used to 
construct an immune checkpoint-based signature (ICS), which was validated in a 
validation cohort containing 125 patients.
RESULTS: High positive expression of PD-L1 and B7-H4 was observed in tumour 
cells (TCs), whereas PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, IDO-1, VISTA, ICOS and OX40 were 
highly expressed in tumour-associated immune cells (TAICs). Eight of the 13 
immune features were associated with patient overall survival, and an ICS 
classifier consisting of 5 features (B7-H3TAIC, IDO-1TAIC, VISTATAIC, ICOSTAIC, 
and LAG3TAIC) was established. Patients with high-risk scores in the training 
cohort had shorter overall (P < 0.001), disease-free (P = 0.002), and distant 
metastasis-free survival (P = 0.004), which were confirmed in the validation 
cohort. Multivariate analysis revealed that the ICS classifier was an 
independent prognostic factor. A combination of the ICS classifier and TNM stage 
had better prognostic value than the TNM stage alone. In addition, the ICS 
classifier was significantly associated with survivals in patients with high 
EBV-DNA load.
CONCLUSIONS: We determined the expression status of nine immune checkpoints 
consistent with 13 features in NPC and further constructed an ICS prognostic 
model, which might add prognostic value to the TNM staging system.

DOI: 10.1186/s40425-019-0752-4
PMCID: PMC6854706
PMID: 31722750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


339. Cell Immunol. 2020 Jan;347:104008. doi: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2019.104008. Epub
2019  Nov 4.

B7-H4, a promising target for immunotherapy.

Wang JY(1), Wang WP(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China.
(2)Center for Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, College of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou 215123, China. Electronic address: 
wangweipeng@suda.edu.cn.

The coinhibitory molecule B7-H4, an important member of the B7 family, is 
abnormally expressed in tumors, inflammation and autoimmune diseases. B7-H4 
negatively regulates T cell immune response and promotes immune escape by 
inhibiting the proliferation, cytokine secretion, and cell cycle of T cells. 
Moreover, B7-H4 plays an extremely important role in tumorigenesis and tumor 
development including cell proliferation, invasion, metastasis, anti-apoptosis, 
etc. In addition, B7-H4 has the other biological functions, such as protection 
against type 1 diabetes (T1D) and islet cell transplantation. Therefore, B7-H4 
has been identified as a novel marker or a therapeutic target for the treatment 
of tumors, inflammation, autoimmune diseases, and organ transplantation. Here, 
we summarized the expression profiles, physiological and pathological functions, 
and regulatory mechanisms of B7-H4, the signaling pathways involved, as well as 
B7-H4-based immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellimm.2019.104008
PMID: 31733822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Oncoimmunology. 2019 Sep 30;8(12):e1665460. doi:
10.1080/2162402X.2019.1665460.  eCollection 2019.

Tumor cell expression of B7-H4 correlates with higher frequencies of 
tumor-infiltrating APCs and higher CXCL17 expression in human epithelial ovarian 
cancer.

MacGregor HL(1)(2), Garcia-Batres C(2), Sayad A(2), Elia A(2), Berman HK(3), 
Toker A(2), Katz SR(4), Shaw PA(3), Clarke BA(3), Crome SQ(1)(5), Robert-Tissot 
C(2), Bernardini MQ(4), Nguyen LT(2), Ohashi PS(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University Health 
Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University Health Network, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(5)Toronto General Hospital Research Institute, University Health Network, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

B7-H4, an immune suppressive member of the B7 family, is highly expressed in a 
wide variety of human malignancies making it an attractive immunotherapeutic 
target. However, the association between B7-H4 expression in the tumor 
microenvironment and the immune infiltrate has not been comprehensively 
examined. To evaluate the immune tumor microenvironment, we analyzed epithelial 
ovarian tumors from 28 patients using flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, 
functional, and genomic analyses. We determined B7-H4 expression patterns and 
compared the immune infiltrates of tumors with high and low surface expression 
of B7-H4. Frequencies and phenotypes of tumor and immune cells were determined 
using multiple flow cytometry panels. Immunohistochemistry was used to analyze 
cellular infiltration and location. Publicly available datasets were 
interrogated to determine intratumoral cytokine and chemokine expression. We 
found that B7-H4 was predominantly expressed by tumor cells in the epithelial 
ovarian tumor microenvironment. Surface expression of B7-H4 on tumor cells was 
correlated with higher levels of infiltrating mature antigen-presenting cells. 
Further, expression of CXCL17, a monocyte and dendritic cell chemoattractant, 
correlated strongly with B7-H4 expression. T cells expressed activation markers, 
but T cells expressing a combination of markers associated with T cell 
activation/exhaustion phenotype were not prevalent. Overall, our data suggest 
that B7-H4 is associated with a pro-inflammatory tumor microenvironment.

© 2019 The Author(s). Published by Taylor & Francis.

DOI: 10.1080/2162402X.2019.1665460
PMCID: PMC6844312
PMID: 31741762


341. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2020 Feb;69(2):163-174. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-019-02451-4. Epub 2019 Dec 17.

B7H4 expression in tumor cells impairs CD8 T cell responses and tumor immunity.

Zhou L(1), Ruan M(1), Liu Y(1), Zhu Y(1), Fu D(1), Wu K(2), Zhang Q(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunotherapy, Fujian Medical University, No. 1 Xuefu North 
Road, Shangjie Town, Minhou County, Fuzhou, 350122, China.
(2)The First Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical University, No. 20 Chating 
Middle Road, Fuzhou, 350005, China.
(3)The School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, 
China. qiuyu.zhang@fjmu.edu.cn.
(4)Institute of Immunotherapy, Fujian Medical University, No. 1 Xuefu North 
Road, Shangjie Town, Minhou County, Fuzhou, 350122, China. 
qiuyu.zhang@fjmu.edu.cn.

B7 homolog 4 (B7H4) is considered a negative regulator of immune responses, but 
the immunoregulatory role of B7H4 in the tumor microenvironment is not clear. 
Here, we assessed B7H4 expression cell types in human breast cancer tissues and 
addressed its potential mechanisms in the CD8 T cell immune response. The 
results from flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry demonstrated that B7H4 was 
highly expressed in 26 out of 30 (86.7%) breast invasive ductal carcinomas, and 
B7H4 surface expression on tumor cells was inversely correlated with CD8 T 
lymphocytes infiltration (p < 0.0001). In vivo, B7H4-overexpressing tumor cells 
showed enhanced tumor growth in immunocompetent mice with impaired CD8 T cell 
infiltration of the tumor. Further investigation showed that activation and 
expansion of CD8 T cells within the lymph nodes were suppressed in 
B7H4-overexpessing tumor-bearing mice. An in vitro killing assay showed that the 
cytotoxicity of CD8 T cells was inhibited in B7H4-overexpressing tumor cells. 
These findings suggest that B7H4 in tumor cells is a negative regulator of CD8 T 
cell activation, expansion and cytotoxicity, indicating that tumor 
cell-associated B7H4 might be a target for T cell-based cancer immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-019-02451-4
PMCID: PMC7000514
PMID: 31848656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


342. J Immunother Cancer. 2019 Dec 31;7(1):357. doi: 10.1186/s40425-019-0816-5.

High expression of B7-H3 on stromal cells defines tumor and stromal compartments 
in epithelial ovarian cancer and is associated with limited immune activation.

MacGregor HL(1)(2), Sayad A(2), Elia A(2), Wang BX(2), Katz SR(3), Shaw PA(4), 
Clarke BA(4), Crome SQ(1)(5), Robert-Tissot C(2), Bernardini MQ(3), Nguyen 
LT(2), Ohashi PS(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.
(3)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University Health Network, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University Health 
Network, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(5)Toronto General Hospital Research Institute, University Health Network, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Immunology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
Pam.Ohashi@uhnresearch.ca.
(7)Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. Pam.Ohashi@uhnresearch.ca.
(8)Department of Medical Biophysics, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. Pam.Ohashi@uhnresearch.ca.

BACKGROUND: B7-H3 and B7-H4 are highly expressed by many human malignancies 
making them attractive immunotherapeutic targets. However, their expression 
patterns and immune contexts in epithelial ovarian cancer have not been well 
characterized.
METHODS: We used flow cytometry, immunohistochemistry, and genomic analyses to 
determine the patterns of B7-H3, B7-H4, and PD-L1 expression by tumor, stromal, 
and immune cells in the ovarian tumor microenvironment (TME). We analyzed immune 
cell frequency and expression of PD-1, TIM3, LAG3, ICOS, TIA-1, granzyme B, 2B4, 
CD107a, and GITR on T cells; CD20, CD22, IgD, BTLA, and CD27 on B cells; CD16 on 
monocytes; and B7-H3, B7-H4, PD-L1, PD-L2, ICOSL, CD40, CD86, and CLEC9a on 
antigen-presenting cells by flow cytometry. We determined intratumoral cellular 
location of immune cells using immunohistochemistry. We compared differences in 
immune infiltration in tumors with low or high tumor-to-stroma ratio and in 
tumors from the same or unrelated patients.
RESULTS: On non-immune cells, B7-H4 expression was restricted to tumor cells 
whereas B7-H3 was expressed by both tumor and stromal cells. Stromal cells of 
the ovarian TME expressed high levels of B7-H3 compared to tumor cells. We used 
this differential expression to assess the tumor-to-stroma ratio of ovarian 
tumors and found that high tumor-to-stroma ratio was associated with increased 
expression of CD16 by monocytes, increased frequencies of PD-1high CD8+ T cells, 
increased PD-L1 expression by APCs, and decreased CLEC9a expression by APCs. We 
found that expression of PD-L1 or CD86 on APCs and the proportion of PD-1high 
CD4+ T cells were strongly correlated on immune cells from tumors within the 
same patient, whereas expression of CD40 and ICOSL on APCs and the proportion of 
PD-1high CD8+ T cells were not.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides insight into the expression patterns of B7-H3 
and B7-H4 in the ovarian TME. Further, we demonstrate an association between the 
tumor-to-stroma ratio and the phenotype of tumor-infiltrating immune cells. We 
also find that some but not all immune parameters show consistency between 
peritoneal metastatic sites. These data have implications for the design of 
immunotherapies targeting these B7 molecules in epithelial ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/s40425-019-0816-5
PMCID: PMC6937725
PMID: 31892360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest.


343. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2019 Jul 1;12(7):2672-2681. eCollection 2019.

The combined expressions of B7H4 and ACOT4 in cancer-associated fibroblasts are 
related to poor prognosis in patients with gastric carcinoma.

Li Q(1)(2)(3), Yang Y(4), Jiang X(2)(4), Jin Y(2), Wu J(2)(4), Qin Y(5), Qi 
X(4)(5), Cheng Y(4), Mao Y(2), Hua D(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University 
Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University Wuxi, 
Jiangsu Province, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, Xuzhou Central Hospital Affiliated to Dongnan 
University Xuzhou, Jiangsu Province, China.
(4)Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, China.
(5)Department of Pathology, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan University Wuxi, 
Jiangsu Province, China.

B7H4 is a member of the B7 family, which is expressed on antigen-presenting 
cells (APCs) and which negatively regulates the immune response of T cells 
through the inhibition of their proliferation, cytokine production, and cell 
cycle progression. Acyl-CoA thioesterase 4 (ACOT4) is an isoform of the ACOTs 
family that catalyzes the hydrolysis of fatty acyl-CoA to CoA-SH and free fatty 
acids. An abnormal metabolism of lipids and fatty acids is observed during tumor 
progression. In our study, a tissue microarray was constructed from 288 cases of 
gastric adenocarcinoma (GC). ACOT4 expression in cancer-associated fibroblasts 
(CAFs) and B7H4 expression in cancer tissues were analyzed by 
immunohistochemistry. The correlations among B7H4 in GC cells, ACOT4 in CAFs, 
and survival were analyzed. The results showed that the expression rate of B7H4 
in tumor cells and ACOT4 in CAFs in 288 tissues was 71.9% (207/288) and 26.4% 
(76/288), respectively, and a Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that a low 
expression of ACOT4 in fibroblasts was positively correlated with poor survival. 
However, in a subgroup showing a high ACOT4 expression, the overall survival 
rate was associated with a high expression of B7H4 and correlated with poor 
prognosis in GC. In conclusion, ACOT4 expression in CAFs could be an independent 
prognostic factor for GC patients, and the co-expression with B7H4 in cancer 
tissues was significantly correlated with GC patients' prognosis. This evidence 
can represent a comprehensive prediction and a targeted therapy for gastric 
cancer patients. Tumor immunotherapy targeting might be affected by tumor 
microenvironment metabolism.

IJCEP Copyright © 2019.

PMCID: PMC6949562
PMID: 31934097

Conflict of interest statement: None.


344. Am J Clin Pathol. 2020 Apr 15;153(5):618-629. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/aqz205.

Expression and Prognostic Value of IFIT1 and IFITM3 in Head and Neck Squamous 
Cell Carcinoma.

Li H(1), Yang LL(1), Wu CC(1), Xiao Y(1), Mao L(1), Chen L(1), Zhang WF(1)(2), 
Sun ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Head Neck Surgery, School & Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

OBJECTIVES: Interferon-induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 (IFIT1) 
and interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 (IFITM3) are commonly induced by 
type I interferon. The study aims to investigate the expression and clinical 
significance of IFIT1 and IFITM3 in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma 
(HNSCC).
METHODS: Immunohistochemistry was applied on tissue microarray to reveal IFIT1 
and IFITM3 expression in 275 HNSCC, 69 dysplasia, and 42 normal mucosa samples. 
The clinicopathologic features associated with IFIT1 and IFITM3 expression in 
HNSCC patients were analyzed.
RESULTS: IFIT1 and IFITM3 were highly expressed in HNSCC tissues. High 
expression of IFIT1 and IFITM3 predicts a negative prognosis for patients (P < 
.01). IFIT1 and IFITM3 expression was associated with programmed cell death 
ligand 1, B7-H4, V-domain Ig suppressor of T-cell activation, indoleamine 
2,3-dioxygenase, and macrophage marker immunoreactivity.
CONCLUSIONS: IFIT1 and IFITM3 were overexpressed in HNSCC and indicated poor 
prognoses for patients with HNSCC. IFIT1 and IFITM3 expression was correlated 
with several immune checkpoint molecules and tumor-associated macrophage 
markers.

© American Society for Clinical Pathology, 2020. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/aqz205
PMID: 31977029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Eur J Oral Sci. 2020 Feb;128(1):37-45. doi: 10.1111/eos.12673. Epub 2020 Feb
6.

Expression of inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase type II and the prognosis of 
oral squamous cell carcinoma.

Yang QC(1), Li H(1), Xiao Y(1), Wu CC(1), Yang SC(1), Sun ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine, Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School & Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

Inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase type II (INPP4B) is a phosphoinositide 
phosphatase that plays complex roles in the pathogenesis of different tumors. We 
aimed to explore the expression, clinicopathological significance, and 
prognostic value of INPP4B in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Tissue 
microarrays that included samples from 176 primary OSCCs, 42 normal mucosae, and 
69 dysplastic tissues were used for immunostaining analyses of INPP4B protein. 
Aperio ScanScope CS scanner and aperio quantification software were used to scan 
the microarrays and score the staining, respectively. We also evaluated the 
correlation between INPP4B expression and clinical parameters, pathological 
grades, node-positive status, and immune-related markers. Expression of INPP4B 
was statistically significantly upregulated in human primary OSCC tissues 
compared with dysplastic and normal tissues. Additionally, we found that 
patients with strong expression of INPP4B had a statistically significantly 
poorer overall survival than patients with weak expression of INPP4B. 
Furthermore, our study indicated that expression of INPP4B in OSCC was 
positively associated with expression of p-S6Ser235/236 , p-CADSer1859 , and 
certain immune checkpoints (B7-H4, Galectin-9). Therefore, INPP4B may be an 
independent prognostic indicator for patients with OSCC, in which it might 
function as an oncoprotein.

© 2020 Eur J Oral Sci.

DOI: 10.1111/eos.12673
PMID: 32027770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2020 Apr;17(2):209-222. doi:
10.1007/s13770-020-00239-7.  Epub 2020 Feb 19.

Preconditioning of Human Decidua Basalis Mesenchymal Stem/Stromal Cells with 
Glucose Increased Their Engraftment and Anti-diabetic Properties.

Basmaeil Y(1), Rashid MA(2), Khatlani T(2), AlShabibi M(3), Bahattab E(3), 
Abdullah ML(4), Abomaray F(5), Kalionis B(6)(7), Massoudi S(8), Abumaree 
M(2)(9).

Author information:
(1)Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine Department, King Abdullah International 
Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz Medical City, Ministry of National Guard 
Health Affairs, Mail Code 1515, P.O. Box 22490, Riyadh, 11426, Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia. basmaeily@NGHA.MED.SA.
(2)Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine Department, King Abdullah International 
Medical Research Center, King Abdulaziz Medical City, Ministry of National Guard 
Health Affairs, Mail Code 1515, P.O. Box 22490, Riyadh, 11426, Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia.
(3)National Center for Stem Cell Technology, Life Sciences and Environment 
Research Institute, King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, P.O Box 
6086, Riyadh, 11442, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(4)Experimental Medicine, King Abdullah International Medical Research Center 
MNG-HA, Ali Al Arini, Ar Rimayah, Riyadh, 11481, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(5)Division of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Clinical Science, 
Intervention and Technology, Karolinska Institutet, 14186, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Department of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Pregnancy Research Centre and 
University of Melbourne, Parkville, VIC, 3010, Australia.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Royal Women's Hospital, 20 
Flemington Rd, Parkville, VIC, 3052, Australia.
(8)Department of Forensic Biology, College of Forensic Sciences, Naif Arab 
University for Security Sciences, Khurais Rd, Ar Rimayah, Riyadh, 14812, Kingdom 
of Saudi Arabia.
(9)College of Science and Health Professions, King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University 
for Health Sciences, King Abdulaziz Medical City, Ministry of National Guard 
Health Affairs, Mail Code 3124, P.O. Box 3660, Riyadh, 11481, Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia.

Erratum in
    Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2020 Jun;17(3):401.

BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSCs) from the decidua basalis 
(DBMSCs) of the human placenta have important functions that make them potential 
candidates for cellular therapy. Previously, we showed that DBMSC functions do 
not change significantly in a high oxidative stress environment, which was 
induced by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and immune cells. Here, we studied the 
consequences of glucose, another oxidative stress inducer, on the phenotypic and 
functional changes in DBMSCs.
METHODS: DBMSCs were exposed to a high level of glucose, and its effect on DBMSC 
phenotypic and functional properties was determined. DBMSC expression of 
oxidative stress and immune molecules after exposure to glucose were also 
identified.
RESULTS: Conditioning of DBMSCs with glucose improved their adhesion and 
invasion. Glucose also increased DBMSC expression of genes with survival, 
proliferation, migration, invasion, anti-inflammatory, anti-chemoattractant and 
antimicrobial properties. In addition, DBMSC expression of B7H4, an inhibitor of 
T cell proliferation was also enhanced by glucose. Interestingly, glucose 
modulated DBMSC expression of genes involved in insulin secretion and prevention 
of diabetes.
CONCLUSION: These data show the potentially beneficial effects of glucose on 
DBMSC functions. Preconditioning of DBMSCs with glucose may therefore be a 
rational strategy for increasing their therapeutic potential by enhancing their 
engraftment efficiency. In addition, glucose may program DBMSCs into insulin 
producing cells with ability to counteract inflammation and infection associated 
with diabetes. However, future in vitro and in vivo studies are essential to 
investigate the findings of this study further.

DOI: 10.1007/s13770-020-00239-7
PMCID: PMC7105536
PMID: 32077075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing financial interests exist. The 
authors declare that there is no conflict of interests regarding the publication 
of this paper.


347. Exp Mol Pathol. 2020 Jun;114:104406. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2020.104406. Epub
2020  Feb 20.

B7-H4 is a potential prognostic biomarker of prostate cancer.

Li H(1), Piao L(1), Liu S(2), Cui Y(2), Xuan Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji 133002, PR China; Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji 133002, PR China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Affiliated Hospital of Yanbian University, Yanji 
133002, PR China.
(3)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji 133002, PR China; Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji 133002, PR China. Electronic address: xuanyh1@ybu.edu.cn.

B7-H4 is a member of B7 family which regulates immune responses by delivering 
costimulatory signals. However, it negatively regulates T cell-mediated immunity 
and may play an important role in tumor immune evasion. Although several studies 
have been reported that expression of B7-H4 is elevated in the several types of 
human cancer with a poor clinical outcome, its clinical significance in the 
prostate cancer (PCa) has not been well studied. In this study, we investigated 
the clinical significance of B7-H4 in human PCa and determined if B7-H4 
expression is associated with the cancer cell stemness in PCa. Our studies show 
that expression of B7-H4 is correlated with the pathologic tumor (pT) stage and 
the clinical stage of PCa. The Kaplan-Meier survival analysis revealed that PCa 
patients with high expression of B7-H4 exhibits a shorter overall survival (OS) 
rate. Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analysis indicated that B7-H4 
is an independent poor prognostic factor of PCa. In addition, the expression of 
B7-H4 is correlated with the cancer cell stemness associated genes expression in 
PCa. Further, our studies show that B7-H4 regulates cancer cell stemness 
associated genes expression and effects on the cell cycle and PI3K/Akt signaling 
related genes expression in PCa. These results indicate that B7-H4 expression is 
associated with cancer cell stemness, and B7-H4 is a potential prognostic 
biomarker and a therapeutic target of PCa.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2020.104406
PMID: 32088189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Pathobiology. 2020;87(3):179-192. doi: 10.1159/000505756. Epub 2020 Feb 21.

B7-H3 and B7-H4 Expression in Breast Cancer and Their Association with 
Clinicopathological Variables and T Cell Infiltration.

Kim NI(1), Park MH(2), Kweon SS(3), Lee JS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, 
Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Surgery, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Preventive Medicine, Chonnam National University Medical 
School, Gwangju, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Pathology, Chonnam National University Medical School, Gwangju, 
Republic of Korea, jshinlee@hanmail.net.

OBJECTIVES: B7-H3 and B7-H4 proteins are expressed in breast cancer tissues, but 
their relationships with respect to tumor immune surveillance and outcomes in 
breast cancer are not conclusive.
METHODS: We first examined B7-H3 and B7-H4 mRNA expression in the 
Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets. 
Next, mRNA and protein expression were assessed by RNAscope in situ 
hybridization (ISH) and immunohistochemistry in 10 pairs of breast cancer and 
matched normal tissues. Immunohistochemical staining of B7-H3, B7-H4, CD3, and 
CD8 was performed in tissue microarray slides containing 198 breast cancer 
samples. Association of B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression with survival was verified 
using the publicly accessible BreastMark tool.
RESULTS: B7-H3 and B7-H4 mRNA expression were significantly higher in breast 
cancer samples in the TCGA dataset than in normal breast tissues in the GTEx 
dataset. RNAscope ISH and immunohistochemistry showed that B7-H3 and B7-H4 mRNA 
and protein appeared to be mainly expressed in cancer cells. Expression of B7-H3 
and B7-H4 tended to be associated with low-density scores of stromal 
tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) as well as molecular subtypes. Expressions 
of B7-H3 and B7-H4 were negatively correlated with stromal CD3+ and CD8+ T cell 
infiltration density. B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression was not associated with 
survival, which was verified by BreastMark analysis.
CONCLUSION: Expression levels of B7-H3 and B7-H4 were independent of clinical 
outcomes of breast cancer. There was an inverse relationship between the 
expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in breast cancer and the density of stromal TILs 
and CD8+ T lymphocytes. This inverse relationship may represent a promising 
target in the field of breast cancer immunotherapy.

© 2020 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000505756
PMID: 32088722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Hum Immunol. 2020 May;81(5):254-261. doi: 10.1016/j.humimm.2020.02.004. Epub
 2020 Feb 26.

The B7-H4 gene induces immune escape partly via upregulating the PD-1/Stat3 
pathway in non-small cell lung cancer.

Yuan L(1), Ye J(2), Fan D(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory 1, Hunan Provincial People's Hospital, 
Changsha 410005, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory 1, Hunan Provincial People's Hospital, 
Changsha 410005, China. Electronic address: yejianrongbs@163.com.
(3)Hunan Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Changsha 410005, 
China.

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is associated with high mortality rates 
worldwide. The costimulatory molecule, B7-H4, a member of the B7 family, plays 
an important role in immune regulation, mainly by inhibiting the proliferation 
of T cells to achieve a negative regulatory T cell immune response. The 
mechanism of action of B7-H4 in non-small cell lung cancer is unknown at 
present. Tumor tissues from 71 patients subjected to radical pneumonectomy were 
examined, along with NSCLC cells and BALB/c mice. Among the 71 NSCLC cases, 
overall and recurrence-free survival rates were significantly lower in those 
displaying high B7-H4 expression. Mechanistic analyses showed that B7-H4 
promoted the growth and metastasis of non-small cell lung cancer tumor tissues 
in mice through effects on CD8+ T cell apoptosis. Data from western blot 
experiments further suggested that B7-H4 induced CD8+ T cell death, both in 
vitro and in vivo, and affecting the PD-1/Stat3 pathway and promoting immune 
escape of tumor cells. Our collective findings support the potential utility of 
B7-H4 gene expression as a marker of NSCLC prognosis and provide a novel 
strategy for targeted therapy.

Copyright © 2020 American Society for Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humimm.2020.02.004
PMID: 32113654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


350. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2020;1248:201-226. doi: 10.1007/978-981-15-3266-5_9.

Functions of Immune Checkpoint Molecules Beyond Immune Evasion.

Zhang Y(1), Zheng J(2).

Author information:
(1)Hongqiao International Institute of Medicine, Shanghai Tongren Hospital, Key 
Laboratory of Cell Differentiation and Apoptosis of Chinese Ministry of 
Education, Faculty of Basic Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China.
(2)Hongqiao International Institute of Medicine, Shanghai Tongren Hospital, Key 
Laboratory of Cell Differentiation and Apoptosis of Chinese Ministry of 
Education, Faculty of Basic Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, 200025, China. zhengjunke@sjtu.edu.cn.

Immune checkpoint molecules, including inhibitory and stimulatory immune 
checkpoint molecules, are defined as ligand-receptor pairs that exert inhibitory 
or stimulatory effects on immune responses. Most of the immune checkpoint 
molecules that have been described so far are expressed on cells of the adaptive 
immune system, particularly on T cells, and of the innate immune system. They 
are crucial for maintaining the self-tolerance and modulating the length and 
magnitude of immune responses of effectors in different tissues to minimize the 
tissue damage. More and more evidences have shown that inhibitory or stimulatory 
immune checkpoint molecules are expressed on a sizeable fraction of tumor types. 
Although the main function of tumor cell-associated immune checkpoint molecules 
is considered to mediate the immune evasion, it has been reported that the 
immune checkpoint molecules expressed on tumor cells also play important roles 
in the maintenance of many malignant behaviors, including self-renewal, 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition, metastasis, drug resistance, anti-apoptosis, 
angiogenesis, or enhanced energy metabolisms. In this section, we mainly focus 
on delineating the roles of the tumor cell-associated immune checkpoint 
molecules beyond immune evasion, such as PD-L1, PD-1, B7-H3, B7-H4, LILRB1, 
LILRB2, TIM3, CD47, CD137, and CD70.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-3266-5_9
PMID: 32185712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Front Oncol. 2020 Mar 13;10:264. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2020.00264. eCollection
2020.

B7-Positive and B7-Negative Acute Myeloid Leukemias Display Distinct T Cell 
Maturation Profiles, Immune Checkpoint Receptor Expression, and European 
Leukemia Net Risk Profiles.

Antohe I(1)(2), Dǎscǎlescu A(1)(2), Dǎnǎilǎ C(1)(2), Titieanu A(1)(2), Zlei 
M(3), Ivanov I(4), Sireteanu A(4), Pavel M(5), Cianga P(5).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Department, Grigore T. Popa University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Iaşi, Romania.
(2)Hematology Department, Regional Oncology Institute, Iaşi, Romania.
(3)Immunophenotyping Department, Regional Oncology Institute, Iaşi, Romania.
(4)Molecular Diagnostic Department, Regional Oncology Institute, Iaşi, Romania.
(5)Immunology Department, Grigore T. Popa University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Iaşi, Romania.

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is generally considered a poorly immunogenic 
malignancy, displaying a "non-inflamed" leukemia microenvironment (LME), leading 
to T cell tolerance. However, the immune landscape of AML is much more 
heterogeneous. Since B7 expression is regarded as a consequence of an 
interferon-mediated "inflammatory" phenotype, we have investigated by flow 
cytometry the B7 checkpoint ligands B7.1, B7.2, programmed death ligand 1 
(PD-L1), PD-L2, ICOS-L, B7-H3, and B7-H4 on the AML blasts of 30 newly diagnosed 
patients and their corresponding receptors [cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated 
protein 4 (CTLA-4), programmed death 1 (PD-1), and inducible T cell costimulator 
(ICOS)] on bone marrow (BM) T cell maturation populations. We could thus 
evidence B7-negative and B7-positive leukemias either with an isolated 
expression or part of eight different checkpoint ligand "signatures" that always 
included an inhibitory B7 molecule. B7-positive AMLs encompassed intermediate 
and adverse European Leukemia Net (ELN) risk cases and displayed mainly central 
memory CD4+ T cells with high ICOS levels and effector CD8+ T cells with high 
PD-1 expression. B7-negative cases were rather classified as AML with recurrent 
genetic anomalies and displayed predominantly naive T cells, with the exception 
of NPM1 mutated AMLs, which expressed B7-H3. These different B7 immune profiles 
suggest that specific immunotherapies are required to target the distinct immune 
evasion strategies of this genetically heterogeneous disease.

Copyright © 2020 Antohe, Dǎscǎlescu, Dǎnǎilǎ, Titieanu, Zlei, Ivanov, Sireteanu, 
Pavel and Cianga.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.00264
PMCID: PMC7082324
PMID: 32231996


352. Front Immunol. 2020 Mar 24;11:458. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.00458.
eCollection  2020.

The Role of B7 Family Molecules in Maternal-Fetal Immunity.

Zhao Y(1), Zheng Q(1), Jin L(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Translational Research Center of Shanghai First Maternity and 
Infant Hospital, Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Pregnancy is a complex but well-arranged process, and a healthy fetus requires 
immune privilege and surveillance in the presence of paternally derived 
antigens. Maternal and fetal cells interact at the maternal-fetal interface. The 
upregulation and downregulation of maternal immunity executed by the leukocyte 
population predominantly depend on the activity of decidual natural killer cells 
and trophoblasts and are further modulated by a series of duplex signals. The B7 
family, which consists of B7-1, B7-2, B7-H1, B7-DC, B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4, B7-H5, 
BTNL2, B7-H6, and B7-H7, is one of the most characterized and widely distributed 
signaling molecule superfamilies and conducts both stimulatory and inhibitory 
signals through separate interactions. In particular, the roles of B7-1, B7-2, 
B7-H1, and their corresponding receptors in the progression of normal pregnancy 
and some pregnancy complications have been extensively studied. Together with 
the TCR-MHC complex, B7 and its receptors play a critical role in cell 
proliferation and cytokine secretion. Depending on this ligand-receptor 
crosstalk, the balance between the tolerance and rejection of the fetus is 
perfectly maintained. This review aims to provide an overview of the current 
knowledge of the B7 family and its functions in regulating maternal-fetal 
immunity through individual interactions.

Copyright © 2020 Zhao, Zheng and Jin.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.00458
PMCID: PMC7105612
PMID: 32265918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Int J Oncol. 2020 Jul;57(1):87-99. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2020.5037. Epub 2020 Apr
3.

Identification of the cis‑molecular neighbours of the immune checkpoint 
protein B7‑H4 in the breast cancer cell‑line SK‑BR‑3 by proteomic proximity 
labelling.

Rees JS(1), Cheung LCC(1), Hamaia SW(1), Davies G(2), Sandercock A(3), Lilley 
KS(1), Tigue N(3), Jackson AP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 1QW, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Oncology R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, CB21 6GP, United Kingdom.
(3)Antibody Discovery and Protein Engineering, R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, CB21 
6GP, United Kingdom.

The immune checkpoint protein B7‑H4 plays an important role in the positive as 
well as the negative regulation of immune T‑cell responses. When expressed on 
cancer cells, B7‑H4 inhibits T‑cell activity, and numerous types of cancer cells 
use upregulation of B7‑H4 as a survival strategy. Thus, B7‑H4 is a potential 
target for anticancer drug therapy. Unfortunately, the cell biology of this 
molecule has yet to be fully elucidated. Even basic properties, such as the 
nature of B7‑H4 interactors, are controversial. In particular, the 
cis‑interactors of B7‑H4 on cancer cell plasma membranes have not been 
investigated to date. The present study used a proteomic proximity‑labelling 
assay to investigate the molecular neighbours of B7‑H4 on the surface of the 
human breast cancer cells SK‑BR‑3. By comparison to a comprehensive proteome 
analysis of SK‑BR‑3 cells, the proximity method detected a relatively small 
number of low abundance plasma membrane proteins highly enriched for proteins 
known to modulate cell adhesion and immune recognition. It may be inferred that 
these molecules contribute to the immunosuppressive behaviour that is 
characteristic of B7‑H4 on cancer cells.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2020.5037
PMCID: PMC7252456
PMID: 32319587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. J Immunol Res. 2020 Apr 3;2020:1283632. doi: 10.1155/2020/1283632.
eCollection  2020.

Expression and Significance of Immune Checkpoints in Clear Cell Carcinoma of the 
Uterine Cervix.

Zong L(1)(2), Zhang Q(3)(4), Zhou Y(1), Kong Y(1), Yu S(2), Chen J(2), Zhang 
Y(3), Xiang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing 100730, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100730, 
China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Qilu Hospital, Shandong University, 
Ji'nan 250012, China.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Shandong First Medical University, Tai'an 271000, China.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression levels of the immune 
checkpoint proteins, programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), B7-H3, B7-H4, and 
V-domain Ig suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA), as well as the significance 
thereof, in clear cell carcinoma (CCC) of the cervix (a rare histological 
subtype of cervical cancer). We also compared the expression statuses of these 
biomarkers in cervical CCCs with those in cervical squamous cell carcinomas 
(SCCs). We evaluated the expression of PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, and VISTA in 50 
cervical CCCs and 100 SCCs using immunohistochemical staining and investigated 
the associations between these markers, clinicopathologic features, and survival 
in patients with CCCs. Of the cervical CCC samples examined, 22%, 16%, 32%, and 
34% were positive for PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, and VISTA, respectively. Nineteen 
samples (38%) were negative for all 4 of these markers, whereas 31 (62%) 
expressed at least 1 marker. None of these markers was associated with the 
investigated clinicopathologic variables or patient survival. PD-L1, B7-H3, and 
VISTA were observed significantly more frequently in SCCs than in CCCs of the 
cervix. Our study confirmed the expression of immune checkpoint proteins in 
cervical CCCs and indicated their nonredundant and complementary roles. As such, 
our data suggest that monotherapeutic immune checkpoint blockade may not be 
sufficiently effective in patients with cervical CCC.

Copyright © 2020 Liju Zong et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/1283632
PMCID: PMC7157811
PMID: 32322590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this article.


355. Oncoimmunology. 2020 Apr 16;9(1):1744897. doi:
10.1080/2162402X.2020.1744897.  eCollection 2020.

Antibody targeting of B7-H4 enhances the immune response in urothelial 
carcinoma.

Podojil JR(1), Glaser AP(2)(3)(4), Baker D(5)(6), Courtois ET(5)(6), Fantini 
D(2)(3), Yu Y(2)(3), Eaton V(1), Sivajothi S(5)(6), Chiang M(1), Das A(2), 
McLaughlin KA(2)(3), Robson P(5)(6), Miller SD(1), Meeks JJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Urology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, and Molecular Genetics, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, NorthShore University 
HealthSystem, Evanston, IL, USA.
(5)Single Cell Biology Laboratory, The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine, 
Farmington, CT, USA.
(6)Department of Genetics and Genome Sciences, Institute for Systems Genomics, 
University of Connecticut, Farmington, CT, USA.

Patients with locally advanced and metastatic urothelial carcinoma have a low 
survival rate (median 15.7 months, 13.1-17.8), with only a 23% response rate to 
monotherapy treatment with anti-PDL1 checkpoint immunotherapy. To identify new 
therapeutic targets, we profiled the immune regulatory signatures during murine 
cancer development using the BBN carcinogen and identified an increase in the 
expression of the T cell inhibitory protein B7-H4 (VTCN1, B7S1, B7X). B7-H4 
expression temporally correlated with decreased lymphocyte infiltration. While 
the increase in B7-H4 expression within the bladder by CD11b+ monocytes is 
shared with human cancers, B7-H4 expression has not been previously identified 
in other murine cancer models. Higher expression of B7-H4 was associated with 
worse survival in muscle-invasive bladder cancer in humans, and increased B7-H4 
expression was identified in luminal and luminal-papillary subtypes of bladder 
cancer. Evaluation of B7-H4 by single-cell RNA-Seq and immune mass cytometry of 
human bladder tumors found that B7-H4 is expressed in both the epithelium of 
urothelial carcinoma and CD68+ macrophages within the tumor. To investigate the 
function of B7-H4, treatment of human monocyte and T cell co-cultures with a 
B7-H4 blocking antibody resulted in enhanced IFN-γ secretion by CD4+ and CD8+ T 
cells. Additionally, anti-B7-H4 antibody treatment of BBN-carcinogen bladder 
cancers resulted in decreased tumor size, increased CD8+ T cell infiltration 
within the bladder, and a complimentary decrease in tumor-infiltrating T 
regulatory cells (Tregs). Furthermore, treatment with a combination of anti-PD-1 
and anti-B7-H4 antibodies resulted in a significant reduction in tumor stage, a 
reduction in tumor size, and an increased level of tumor necrosis. These 
findings suggest that antibodies targeting B7-H4 may be a viable strategy for 
bladder cancers unresponsive to PD-1 checkpoint inhibitors.

© 2020 The Author(s). Published with license by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

DOI: 10.1080/2162402X.2020.1744897
PMCID: PMC7185218
PMID: 32363111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Cancer Lett. 2020 Aug 10;485:14-26. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2020.04.013. Epub
2020  May 14.

Insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor induces immunosuppression in lung cancer 
by upregulating B7-H4 expression through the MEK/ERK signaling pathway.

Zhao Z(1), Zhang N(1), Li A(1), Zhou B(2), Chen Y(1), Chen S(3), Huang M(4), Wu 
F(5), Zhang L(6).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China.
(2)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical 
Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Key Laboratory 
of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China.
(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Department of Bioinformatics, School of Biology & Basic Medical Sciences, 
Soochow University, Suzhou, China.
(5)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 1701823@tongji.edu.cn.
(6)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China; Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital 
of Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Key Laboratory of 
Clinical Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Key 
Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: zliang@suda.edu.cn.

The Insulin-like growth factor-1/Insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor 
(IGF1/IGF1R) axis contributes to immunosuppression during tumor progression; 
however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In the present study, we 
found that IGF1 stimulation or IGF1R overexpression (IGF1R-OE) could upregulate 
the expression of B7-H4, while IGF1R inhibition downregulated B7-H4 in both A549 
and SPC-A-1 lung cancer cell lines. IGF1R-OE conferred the inhibition of CD8+ T 
cells by cancer cells in vitro, and induction of B7-H4 expression was mediated 
by the activation of the MEK/ERK1/2 signaling pathway. The in vitro findings 
were further confirmed in vivo using a Lewis lung cancer mouse model. IGF1R-OE 
promoted tumor growth and inhibited tumor infiltration by CD8+ T cells in the 
mouse model. However, this effect was suppressed when B7-H4 was knocked down in 
IGF1R-OE cells. Our findings suggest that IGF1R could induce immunosuppression 
in lung cancer by upregulating the expression of B7-H4 through the MEK/ERK 
pathway. B7-H4 may therefore be a potential therapeutic target for lung cancer 
immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2020.04.013
PMID: 32417396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None.


357. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2020 Oct;69(10):2041-2051. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-020-02608-6. Epub 2020 May 18.

Galectin-9 expression as a poor prognostic factor in patients with renal cell 
carcinoma.

Jikuya R(1), Kishida T(2), Sakaguchi M(3), Yokose T(4), Yasui M(1), Hashizume 
A(1), Tatenuma T(1), Mizuno N(1), Muraoka K(1), Umemoto S(1), Kawai M(1), 
Yoshihara M(3), Nakamura Y(3), Miyagi Y(3), Sasada T(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kanagawa Cancer Center, 2-3-2 Nakao, Asahi-ku, 
Yokohama, Kanagawa, 241-8515, Japan.
(2)Department of Urology, Kanagawa Cancer Center, 2-3-2 Nakao, Asahi-ku, 
Yokohama, Kanagawa, 241-8515, Japan. kishidat@kcch.jp.
(3)Research Institute, Kanagawa Cancer Center, 2-3-2 Nakao, Asahi-ku, Yokohama, 
Kanagawa, 241-8515, Japan.
(4)Department of Pathology, Kanagawa Cancer Center, 2-3-2 Nakao, Asahi-ku, 
Yokohama, Kanagawa, 241-8515, Japan.
(5)Research Institute, Kanagawa Cancer Center, 2-3-2 Nakao, Asahi-ku, Yokohama, 
Kanagawa, 241-8515, Japan. tsasada@kcch.jp.
(6)Cancer Vaccine and Immunotherapy Center, Kanagawa Cancer Center, 2-3-2 Nakao, 
Asahi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa, 241-8515, Japan. tsasada@kcch.jp.

Recently, the effectiveness of anti-programmed death 1 (PD-1) antibody therapy 
in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) has been established. 
Nevertheless, efficacy has been reported to be limited to only 10-30% of 
patients. To develop more effective immunotherapy for RCC, we analyzed the 
immunological characteristics in RCC tissues by immunohistochemistry (IHC). We 
prepared a tissue microarray that consisted of tumor tissue sections (1 mm in 
diameter) from 83 RCC patients in Kanagawa Cancer Center between 2006 and 2015. 
IHC analysis was performed with antibodies specific to immune-related (CD8 and 
Foxp3) and immune checkpoint (programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and 2 (PD-L2), 
B7-H4 and galectin-9) molecules. The numbers and proportions of positively 
stained tumor cells or immune cells were determined in each section. From 
multivariate analysis of all 83 patients, higher galectin-9 expression was 
detected as a factor associated with worse overall survival (OS) (P = 0.029) and 
that higher stage and higher B7-H4 expression were associated with worse 
progression-free survival (PFS) (P < 0.001 and P = 0.021, respectively). 
Similarly, in multivariate analysis of 69 patients with clear cell RCC, though 
not statistically significant, there was a trend for association between higher 
galectin-9 expression and worse OS (P = 0.067), while higher stage was 
associated with worse PFS (P < 0.001). This study suggests that higher 
galectin-9 expression is an independent adverse prognostic factor of OS in RCC 
patients. Therefore, to develop more effective personalized immunotherapy to 
treat RCC, it may be important to target not only PD-1/PD-L1, but also other 
immune checkpoint molecules such as galectin-9.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-020-02608-6
PMID: 32424467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Immunother Cancer. 2020 May;8(1):e000154. doi: 10.1136/jitc-2019-000154.

Enhanced B7-H4 expression in gliomas with low PD-L1 expression identifies 
super-cold tumors.

Chen D(#)(1), Li G(#)(2), Ji C(#)(1)(3), Lu Q(1)(3), Qi Y(1), Tang C(1)(3), 
Xiong J(4), Hu J(5), Yasar FBA(5), Zhang Y(6), Hoon DSB(7), Yao Y(8), Zhou 
L(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Marine Bioresources and Ecology, Brain Disease and 
Big Data Research Institute, College of Life Sciences & and Oceanography, 
Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(3)Immunology Laboratory, Neurosurgical Institute of Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Cancer Biology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(6)Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Marine Bioresources and Ecology, Brain Disease and 
Big Data Research Institute, College of Life Sciences & and Oceanography, 
Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China yu_yao@fudan.edu.cn 
zhangyan@szu.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Translational Molecular Medicine, John Wayne Cancer Institute, 
Providence Health Systems, Santa Monica, California, USA.
(8)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China yu_yao@fudan.edu.cn zhangyan@szu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Characterizing expression profiles of different immune checkpoint 
molecules are promising for personalized checkpoint inhibitory immunotherapy. 
Gliomas have been shown as potential targets for immune checkpoint inhibitors 
recently. Our study was performed to determine coexpression levels of two major 
B7 immune regulatory molecules programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) and B7-H4, both 
of which have been demonstrated to inhibit antitumor host immunity in gliomas.
METHODS: We assessed tumor tissues from stage II-IV primary gliomas (n=505) by 
immunohistochemistry (IHC) for protein levels of both PD-L1 and B7-H4. Gene 
coexpression analysis assessing clusters based on extent of PD-L1/B7-H4 
classifier genes expression were investigated in two transcriptome datasets (The 
Cancer Genome Atlas and Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas). In addition, levels of 
immune cell infiltrates were estimated with IHC and RNA-seq data for assessing 
the tumor immune microenvironment of PD-L1/B7-H4 subgroups.
RESULTS: High expression of PD-L1 and B7-H4 in gliomas was 23% and 20%, 
respectively, whereas coexpression of two proteins at high levels was limited to 
2% of the cases. Comparable results were seen in RNA-seq datasets where PD-L1 
mRNA expression levels negatively correlated with that of B7-H4. Gene 
coexpression modules clustered within each grade of gliomas demonstrated lack of 
double-high modules (cluster with high expression of both PD-L1 and B7-H4 
classifier genes). B7-H4 mRNA expression levels showed negative correlation with 
extent of immune cell infiltration and High-B7-H4 module gliomas (high B7-H4 but 
low PD-L1 classifier genes expression) had less tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes 
(TILs) and tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). IHC assessment also showed few 
TILs and TAMs in High-B7-H4 subgroup gliomas.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of gliomas express PD-L1 or B7-H4, however, 
coexpression of both at high levels is minimal. The high-B7-H4 patients could be 
considered as 'super-cold' gliomas with significantly deficient in TILs, 
suggesting that B7-H4 might inhibit T-cell trafficking into the central nervous 
system. This study demonstrated that PD-L1 and B7-H4 may serve as mutually 
compensatory immune checkpoint molecules in gliomas for immune targeted or 
active-specific immunotherapy. The distinct B7-H4 pathways modulating T-cell 
function and immune evasion in glioma patients deserved to be further explored 
in the future during immunotherapy.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jitc-2019-000154
PMCID: PMC7253052
PMID: 32457124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: No, there are no competing 
interests.


359. Mod Pathol. 2020 Nov;33(11):2330-2340. doi: 10.1038/s41379-020-0587-z. Epub
2020  Jun 8.

B7-H3 immune checkpoint expression is a poor prognostic factor in colorectal 
carcinoma.

Lu Z(1), Zhao ZX(1), Cheng P(1), Huang F(1), Guan X(1), Zhang MG(1), Chen HP(1), 
Liu Z(1), Jiang Z(1), Zheng ZX(2), Zou SM(3), Wang XS(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, National Cancer Center/National Clinical 
Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Colorectal Surgery, National Cancer Center/National Clinical 
Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. zzx_20003@126.com.
(3)Department of Pathology, National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research 
Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. zousm@cicams.ac.cn.
(4)Department of Colorectal Surgery, National Cancer Center/National Clinical 
Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences 
and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. wxshan1208@126.com.

Although PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy has been used successfully in treating many 
cancers, metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) patients are not as responsive. 
B7-H3 is a promising target for immunotherapy and we found it to have the 
highest expression among B7-CD28 family members in CRC. Thus, the aim of the 
present study was to investigate B7-H3 expression in a large CRC cohort. B7-H3, 
B7-H4, and PD-L1 protein levels and differential lymphocyte infiltration were 
evaluated in tissue microarrays from 805 primary tumors and matched metastases. 
The relationships between immune markers, patient characteristics, and survival 
outcomes were determined. B7-H3 (50.9%) was detected in more primary tumors than 
B7-H4 (29.1%) or PD-L1 (29.2%), and elevated B7-H3 expression was associated 
with advanced overall stage. Co-expression of B7-H3 only with B7-H4 or PD-L1 was 
infrequent in primary tumors (6.3%, 5.7%, respectively). Moreover, B7-H3 in 
primary tumors was positively correlated with their respective expression at 
metastatic sites (ρ = 0.631; p < 0.001). No significant relationships between 
B7-H4 and PD-L1 and survival were observed; however, B7-H3 overexpression in 
primary tumors was significantly related to decreased disease-free survival. A 
positive relationship between B7-H3 expression and high density CD45RO T cell 
was observed in primary tumors, whereas B7-H4 and PD-L1 overexpression were 
related to CD3 T-cell infiltration. In conclusion, compared with B7-H4 and 
PD-L1, B7-H3 expression exhibited a higher prevalence and was significantly 
related to aggressiveness, worse prognosis and CD45RO T-cell infiltration in 
primary tumors. Further exploration of this potential target of immunotherapy in 
CRC patients is warranted.

DOI: 10.1038/s41379-020-0587-z
PMID: 32514163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J BUON. 2020 Mar-Apr;25(2):1206-1211.

Clinical significance of changes in AFP, HTATIP2/TIP30, B7-H4 and inflammatory 
cytokines after transcatheter arterial chemoembolization.

Zhang P(1), Chen Z, Chen L, Zang H, Zhu B, Shao W, Niu W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, the second affiliated Hospital of 
Nantong University; the first People's Hospital of Nantong City, Nantong, China.

PURPOSE: To explore the clinical significance of changes in alpha-fetoprotein 
(AFP), HIV-1 TAT interactive protein 2/TAT interactive protein 30 
(HTATIP2/TIP30), B7-H4 and inflammatory cytokines after transcatheter arterial 
chemoembolization (TACE).
METHODS: A total of 84 hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients admitted to the 
Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery and the Department of Interventional 
Radiology of our hospital from January 1, 2017 to December 31, 2018 were 
randomly enrolled and divided into an experimental group and a control group 
according to treatment methods. The expression levels of AFP mRNA, 
HTATIP2/TIP30, B7-H4 and inflammatory cytokines were detected before and after 
treatment, the short-term efficacy was followed up and analyzed, and the 
correlation between the two was statistically analyzed.
RESULTS: The AFP expression level in the two groups of patients was lower after 
treatment than before treatment, this reduction being more obvious in the 
experimental group (receiving TACE) than in the control group. Although the 
levels of serum HTATIP2/TIP30 and B7-H4 were decreased after treatment in both 
groups, and they were lower after treatment than those before treatment in the 
control group, lower levels were registered in the control group. Both groups of 
patients had lower expression levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) and 
interleukin 6 (IL-6) after treatment compared with those before treatment, this 
decrease being more significant in the experimental group than in the control 
group. Moreover, the total short-term efficacy rate and the improvement rate of 
the quality of life were higher in the experimental group than in the control 
group, although no statistical difference in the survival rate was found between 
the two groups after 1-year follow-up. The serum level of B7-H4 in the group 
with good efficacy was lower than in the group with poor efficacy before 
treatment, and it declined in both groups after treatment, with a lower level in 
the former than in the latter. Furthermore, the group with good efficacy had a 
lower level of serum HTATIP2/TIP30 than the group with poor efficacy, while both 
groups had a decreased level after treatment, with a lower level in the former 
than in the latter.
CONCLUSION: Interventional therapy for primary HCC has good short-term efficacy. 
It can reduce the levels of serum HTATIP2/TIP30, B7-H4, AFP and 
inflammation-related indexes, improve the liver function and the patients' 
quality of life.

PMID: 32521927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Biosci Rep. 2020 Jul 31;40(7):BSR20201054. doi: 10.1042/BSR20201054.

Prognostic value of immune checkpoint molecules in breast cancer.

Fang J(1)(2)(3), Chen F(#)(1)(4), Liu D(#)(1)(2)(3), Gu F(1)(2)(3), Chen Z(5), 
Wang Y(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cancer and Basic Medicine (ICBM), Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Zhejiang, Hangzhou 310022, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Cancer Hospital 
of The University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Zhejiang, Hangzhou 310022, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Radiation Oncology of Zhejiang Province, Zhejiang, Hangzhou 
310022, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Breast Tumor Surgery, Institute of Cancer Research and Basic 
Medical Sciences of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Cancer Hospital of University 
of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Zhejiang Cancer Hospital, Hangzhou, People's 
Republic of China.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

Immune checkpoint blockade treatments bring remarkable clinical benefits to 
fighting several solid malignancies. However, the efficacy of immune checkpoint 
blockade in breast cancer remains controversial. Several clinical trials of 
immune checkpoint blockades focused on the effect of CTLA4 and PD1/PDL1 
checkpoint inhibitors on breast cancer. Only a small portion of patients 
benefited from these therapies. Here we systematically investigated the 
expression of 50 immune checkpoint genes, including ADORA2A, LAG-3, TIM-3, PD1, 
PDL1, PDL2, CTLA-4, IDO1, B7-H3, B7-H4, CD244, BTLA, TIGIT, CD80, CD86, VISTA, 
CD28, ICOS, ICOSLG, HVEM, CD160, LIGHT, CD137, CD137L, OX40, CD70, CD27, CD40, 
CD40LG, LGALS9, GITRL, CEACAM1, CD47, SIRPA, DNAM1, CD155, 2B4, CD48, TMIGD2, 
HHLA2, BTN2A1, DC-SIGN, BTN2A2, BTN3A1, BTNL3, BTNL9, CD96, TDO, CD200 and 
CD200R, in different subtypes of breast cancer and assessed their prognostic 
value. The results showed that the expression patterns of these 50 immune 
checkpoint genes were distinct in breast cancer. High expression of B7-H3 mRNA 
was significantly associated with worse overall survival (OS), especially in 
patients with luminal A and luminal B breast cancer. The mRNA expression levels 
of TIM-3, ADORA2A, LAG3, CD86, CD80, PD1 and IDO1 had no relationship with OS in 
breast cancer. High expression levels of CTLA-4 and TIGIT were correlated with 
favorable prognosis in breast cancer. Interestingly, we observed that B7-H3 
expression was negatively correlated with the efficacy of cyclophosphamide 
(CTX). In summary, our study suggested that B7-H3 has potential prognostic value 
in breast cancer and is a promising target for immune therapy.

© 2020 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20201054
PMCID: PMC7340863
PMID: 32602545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with the manuscript.


362. Eur J Clin Invest. 2020 Dec;50(12):e13346. doi: 10.1111/eci.13346. Epub 2020
Aug  11.

Predictive value of serum soluble B7-H4 in acute pancreatitis.

Cheng Z(1), Liu Z(2), Yuan Y(1), Liu Z(1), He Y(1), Jiang P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department Hepatobiliary & Pancreat Surgery, Zhongnan Hospital, Wuhan 
University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department Neurology, Wuhan Fourth Hospital, Puai Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

BACKGROUND: Studies reported that soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) was significantly 
related to the progression and prognosis of inflammatory diseases, and whether 
sB7-H4 is related to the severity and prognosis of acute pancreatitis (AP) 
timely has not been reported.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Clinical database data of 446 AP patients were 
retrospectively collected, and the correlation between the expression serum 
levels of sB7-H4 with inflammatory factors and prognostic scores was analysed in 
AP patients.
RESULTS: Soluble B7-H4 was significantly correlated with IL-6, IL-8, TNF-α, PCT, 
CRP levels and WBC count (P < .01), with correlation coefficients of R = .61, 
.53, .46, .60, .57 and .47, respectively, and AUCs were 0.905, 0.837, 0.797, 
0.858, 0.890, 0.841 and 0.855, respectively. In addition, sB7-H4 was 
significantly correlated with the Ranson score, APACHE II score and BISAP score 
(P < .001), with correlation coefficients of R = .58, .63 and .59, respectively. 
The AUCs of assessing local complications of AP were 0.908, 0.863, 0.785 and 
0.844, respectively; assessing organ failure were 0.872, 0.790, 0.796 and 0.857, 
respectively; and assessing in-hospital mortality were 0.839, 0.821, 0.796 and 
0.823, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Soluble B7-H4 could be used as a marker for the diagnosis, severity 
assessment and poor prognosis assessment of AP patients, which may have 
potential clinical applications.

© 2020 Stichting European Society for Clinical Investigation Journal Foundation. 
Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eci.13346
PMID: 32648937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Int J Med Sci. 2020 Jun 27;17(11):1598-1609. doi: 10.7150/ijms.46809. 
eCollection 2020.

Overexpression of ATAD2 indicates Poor Prognosis in Oral Squamous Cell 
Carcinoma.

Wang XL(1)(2), Wang S(1), Wu ZZ(1), Yang QC(1), Li H(1), Xiong HG(1), Wan SC(1), 
Sun ZJ(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Stomatology, Xiangyang Central Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Hubei University of Arts and Science, Xiangyang, China.
(3)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School & Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

ATPase family AAA domain-containing protein 2 (ATAD2) is highly expressed in a 
variety of malignancies and can promote the proliferation of tumor cells and 
inhibit their differentiation. However, the expression of ATAD2 and its related 
mechanism in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) are still unknown. 
Immunohistochemical staining of ATAD2, cancer stem cells (CSCs) markers and 
immune checkpoint molecules was conducted on human OSCC specimens to determine 
the expression levels of these proteins and their correlations with the 
clinicopathological characteristics of ATAD2 in OSCC. Moreover, the role of 
ATAD2 in cell proliferation, apoptosis, migration and epithelial-mesenchymal 
transition (EMT) were assessed by silencing ATAD2 in vitro. Immunohistochemical 
analysis revealed that ATAD2 expression in OSCC tissues was markedly higher than 
that in adjacent dysplastic tissues and normal mucosal tissues. Overexpression 
of ATAD2 was related to poor overall survival in OSCC patients. In addition, the 
protein expression of ATAD2 was notably correlated with the expression of B7-H4, 
PD-L1, CMTM6, Slug and ALDH1 in human OSCC. ATAD2 knockdown arrested the cell 
cycle, promoted the apoptosis, and inhibited the proliferation, migration, and 
EMT of OSCC cells. In conclusion, these findings revealed that ATAD2 is highly 
expressed in OSCC and can act as a poor prognostic indicator.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/ijms.46809
PMCID: PMC7359390
PMID: 32669963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


364. Ann Palliat Med. 2020 Jul;9(4):1953-1957. doi: 10.21037/apm-20-946. Epub
2020  Jul 20.

The significance of immune-regulatory molecule B7-H4 in small cell lung cancer.

Zhang X(1), Song S(2), Zhang F(1), Cai L(1), Xie W(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Jiangnan 
University, Wuxi, China.
(2)Department of Pathology Medicine, Shanghai Public Health Clinical Center, 
Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Affiliated Jiangyin Hospital of 
Southeast University Medical College, Jiangyin, China. 1831632102@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4, a member of the B7 family, is detected in various cancers and 
is closely related to tumor development and prognosis. However, little is known 
about the clinical value of B7-H4 in small cell lung cancer (SCLC).
METHODS: Immunohistochemical analysis was carried out on 103 SCLC specimens. The 
relationship between B7-H4 staining and the major clinical parameters of SCLC 
was analyzed, and the two-year survival rates were investigated by chi-square 
test.
RESULTS: Only 5.83% of the SCLC specimens tested positive for B7-H4. B7-H4 was 
detected on the membrane and in the cytoplasm of tumor cells. In contrast, B7-H4 
expression was not detected in normal lung tissue samples. B7-H4 was not found 
to be associated with major clinical parameters, such as tumor size, gender, 
age, smoking status, limited/extensive stage, tumor node metastasis, Karnofsky 
Performance Status, lymph node metastasis status, distant metastasis, or ki-67. 
Moreover, no obvious differences were observed in the two-year survival rates of 
B7-H4 positive or B7-H4-negative SCLC patients.
CONCLUSIONS: There is no correlation between B7-H4 expression and the 
proliferation or progression of SCLC. Therefore, B7-H4 is not a useful biomarker 
for SCLC prognosis.

DOI: 10.21037/apm-20-946
PMID: 32692215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Oncol Lett. 2020 Aug;20(2):1535-1544. doi: 10.3892/ol.2020.11701. Epub 2020
Jun  5.

Overexpression of B7-H4 promotes renal cell carcinoma progression by recruiting 
tumor-associated neutrophils via upregulation of CXCL8.

Li A(1), Zhang N(1), Zhao Z(1), Chen Y(1), Zhang L(1)(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Pharmacy, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215123, P.R. China.
(2)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215006, P.R. China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu 215006, P.R. China.
(4)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu 215006, P.R. China.

The immune checkpoint molecule B7 family member H4 (B7-H4) plays a similar role 
to programmed death-ligand 1 in tumor immune evasion by regulating 
T-cell-mediated immune responses. However, besides the role in T-cell immunity, 
B7-H4 also affects tumor cell biology by promoting tumor cell proliferation, 
metastasis and angiogenesis. In order to explore the effect of B7-H4 on tumor 
cell biology, it is necessary to investigate the gene expression profile when 
B7-H4 is overexpressed. In the present study, 786-O cells were transfected to 
stably express B7-H4. A microarray technique was subsequently used to screen 
B7-H4-related differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in B7-H4/786-O cells 
compared with negative control (NC)/786-O cells. The protein expression of the 
upregulated DEGs, including non-metastatic cells 5, NME/NM23 family member 5 
(NME5), membrane metalloendopeptidase (MME), vascular non-inflammatory molecule 
1 (VNN1), matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) 7, tumor necrosis factor, C-X-C motif 
chemokine ligand (CXCL) 8, CXCL1 and C-C motif chemokine ligand (CCL) 2, was 
investigated using western blotting. Kidney renal papillary cell carcinoma 
mRNA-sequencing data obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas revealed that 
chemokines, including CXCL1/2/3, CXCL8, MMP7 and CCL20, were positively 
correlated with B7-H4 gene expression. Furthermore, 59 clinical renal cell 
carcinoma tissues were collected and analyzed by immunohistochemical staining. 
The results revealed the positive correlation of B7-H4 with CCL20 and CXCL8, and 
validated the DEGs identified in tumor cell lines. 786-O transfectants were 
inoculated into non-obese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency mice, and 
tumor growth was investigated. B7-H4 overexpression promoted tumor growth and 
administration of anti-CXCL8 antibody reversed this effect. Furthermore, B7-H4 
overexpression increased the number of tumor-infiltrating neutrophils while 
inhibition of CXCL8 abrogated this effect. These data indicated that recruitment 
of neutrophils in the tumor microenvironment by CXCL8 serves an important role 
in the tumor promotion effect of B7-H4. The present study revealed a novel 
mechanism of B7-H4 in tumor promotion in addition to T cell inhibition.

Copyright: © Li et al.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2020.11701
PMCID: PMC7377185
PMID: 32724395


366. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2020 Jul;36(7):603-608.

[Knockdown of B7-H4/VTCN1 promotes apoptosis and autophagy of Huh7 cells by 
inhibiting phosphorylation of JNK].

[Article in Chinese]

Hao T(1), Lei D(1), Hu G(1), Liao R(1), Luo F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, Chongqing 
Medical University, Chongqing 400016, China. *Corresponding author, E-mail: 
luofangdoctor19@163.com.

Objective To investigate the effects of co-stimulatory molecule B7-H4/VTCN1 on 
apoptosis and autophagy of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells and the 
potential signaling pathways. Methods After Huh7 cells were treated by B7-H4 
siRNA, CCK-8 assay was used to detect the cell proliferation. Cell apoptosis was 
measured by flow cytometry. The protein expression levels of cleaved caspase-3 
(c-caspase-3), Bcl2, LC3, P62, JNK and phosphorylated JNK (p-JNK) were examined 
by Western blot analysis. The autophagosome was observed by monodansylcadaverine 
(MDC) assay. Results After the knockdown of B7-H4, the apoptosis and autophagy 
of HCC cells increased, and cell proliferation decreased. Moreover, the 
expression levels of c-caspase-3 and LC3 II went up, while the expression levels 
of Bcl2 and P62 went down. Furthermore, the phosphorylation of JNK was also 
inhibited, and autophagosome was visible. Conclusion Knockdown of B7-H4 promotes 
the apoptosis and autophagy in HCC cells, which may be related to the inhibited 
phosphorylation of JNK.

PMID: 32727644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Invest New Drugs. 2021 Feb;39(1):24-33. doi: 10.1007/s10637-020-00976-5.
Epub  2020 Aug 7.

B7-H6 as an efficient target for T cell-induced cytotoxicity in haematologic 
malignant cells.

Sun X(#)(1), Zhao J(#)(2), Ma L(3), Sun X(1)(4)(5), Ge J(1)(4)(5), Yu Y(4)(6), 
Ma J(7)(8)(9), Zhang M(10)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Beijing Shijitan Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, 10 Tieyi Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100038, 
China.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic, Aerospace Central Hospital, 15 Yuquan Road, 
Haidian District, Beijng, 100049, China.
(3)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing, 100029, China.
(4)Peking University Ninth School of Clinical Medicine, Beijing, 100038, China.
(5)Beijing Key Laboratory of Urinary Cellular Molecular Diagnostics, Beijing, 
100038, China.
(6)Department of Hematology, Beijing Shijitan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, 100038, China.
(7)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Beijing Shijitan Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, 10 Tieyi Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100038, 
China. majuan96@sina.com.
(8)Peking University Ninth School of Clinical Medicine, Beijing, 100038, China. 
majuan96@sina.com.
(9)Beijing Key Laboratory of Urinary Cellular Molecular Diagnostics, Beijing, 
100038, China. majuan96@sina.com.
(10)Department of Clinical Laboratory Medicine, Beijing Shijitan Hospital, 
Capital Medical University, 10 Tieyi Road, Haidian District, Beijing, 100038, 
China. zhangman@bjsjth.cn.
(11)Peking University Ninth School of Clinical Medicine, Beijing, 100038, China. 
zhangman@bjsjth.cn.
(12)Beijing Key Laboratory of Urinary Cellular Molecular Diagnostics, Beijing, 
100038, China. zhangman@bjsjth.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

T cells play crucial roles in the antitumour immune response. However, their 
dysfunction leads to inefficient tumour eradication. New members of the B7 
family have moved to the fore of cancer research because of their involvement in 
T cell-mediated immune escape and tumorigenesis. Recently, bispecific antibodies 
(Bi-Abs) have become attractive because of their ability to activate T cells to 
target tumours. In this study, we examined the expression of new B7 family 
members B7-H4, B7-H5, B7-H6, and B7-H7 in human haematological tumour cells. 
Furthermore, we explored whether B7-H6 is an efficient target for T cell-induced 
cytotoxicity in haematologic malignant cells. We determined the capability of T 
cells armed with the bispecific antibody anti-CD3 × anti-B7-H6 (B7-H6Bi-Ab) to 
target haematological tumours in K562, Thp-1, Daudi, Jurkat, and U266 cells. 
Compared with their T cell counterparts, B7-H6Bi-Ab-armed T cells demonstrated 
significant cytotoxicity induction in B7-H6+ haematological tumour cells, 
according to quantitative luciferase and lactate dehydrogenase assays, and their 
activity was accompanied by increased levels of the secreted killing mediators 
granzyme B and perforin. Moreover, B7-H6Bi-Ab-armed T cells produced more T 
cell-derived cytokines: TNF-α, IFN-γ, and IL-2. In addition, compared to the 
control T cells, a higher level of the activation marker CD69 was detected on 
the B7-H6Bi-Ab-armed T cells. Taken together, these data suggest that the 
antitumour effect of B7-H6Bi-Ab-armed T cells may be a promising immunotherapy 
for use in future haematologic treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/s10637-020-00976-5
PMID: 32770284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Oncol. 2020 Jul 28;2020:9327512. doi: 10.1155/2020/9327512. eCollection
2020.

Alpha-Fetoprotein Regulates the Expression of Immune-Related Proteins through 
the NF-κB (P65) Pathway in Hepatocellular Carcinoma Cells.

Li QT(1), Qiu MJ(1), Yang SL(2), Fang X(3), He XX(1), Wang MM(1), Li YN(1), 
Xiong ZF(1), Huang S(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Liyuan Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan 430077, China.
(2)Cancer Center, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, 1277 JieFang Avenue, Wuhan 430022, China.
(3)Department of Toxicology, Charles River Laboratories, 6995 Longley Ln, Reno, 
NV 89511, USA.
(4)Department of Neurology, Tongji Hospital, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan 430077, China.

BACKGROUND: The prognosis of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is 
poor, with 60% to 70% of patients developing recurrence and metastasis within 
five years of radical resection. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) plays a significant 
role in predicting the recurrence and metastasis of HCC after surgery. However, 
its role in modulating tumor immunity has not been investigated. Our objective 
was to examine the effect of AFP on the expression of B7 family and activation 
of the NF-κB (P65) pathway in HCC.
METHODS: We generated human hepatoma SMMC-7721 cell lines with or without 
recombinant AFP transfection (AFPup and control groups). Colony formation assay, 
Transwell invasion assay, and wound healing assay were used to detect the 
function of AFP. Liver cancer xenografts were made in BALB/c nude male mice 
(N = 6 per group). After 28 days of inoculation, the expression of immune genes 
in the HCC tissues, including PD-L (B7-H1), B7-H3, B7-H4, and P65, was evaluated 
by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) and western blot. In addition, 
immunofluorescence was used to determine the subcellular localization of the P65 
protein, a key factor in the NF-κB pathway. An online HCC patients' dataset was 
also used to detect the connection between AFP and P65.
RESULTS: Overexpression of AFP could enhance proliferation, invasion, and 
migration of HCC cells. Both qPCR and western blot results demonstrated that the 
expressions of PD-L1, B7-H4, and P65 were significantly higher in the AFP group 
compared to the controls (P < 0.05). Immunofluorescence results indicated that 
the majority of the P65 protein was located in the cytoplasm in the control 
group but was translocated to the nucleus in the AFPup group. The Spearman 
correlation coefficient confirms that AFP has a positive correlation with P65 in 
HCC patients (R = 0.33, P=0.05).
CONCLUSION: AFP could enhance proliferation, invasion, and migration in HCC 
cells. The upregulation of AFP would increase the PD-L1 and B7-H4 mRNA and 
protein expression in HCC tissues through the upregulation and activation of the 
P65 protein.

Copyright © 2020 Qiu-ting Li et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/9327512
PMCID: PMC7407027
PMID: 32774373

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


369. J Mol Histol. 2020 Oct;51(5):531-540. doi: 10.1007/s10735-020-09901-9. Epub
2020  Aug 12.

Overexpression of PREX1 in oral squamous cell carcinoma indicates poor 
prognosis.

Wan SC(1), Wu H(1), Li H(1), Deng WW(1), Xiao Y(1), Wu CC(1), Yang LL(1), Zhang 
WF(1)(2), Sun ZJ(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, 237 Luoyu Road, Wuhan, 430079, China.
(3)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China. sunzj@whu.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology School and Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, 237 Luoyu Road, Wuhan, 430079, China. 
sunzj@whu.edu.cn.

Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent Rac exchanger (P-Rex) 
proteins control many fundamental cellular functions including cell migration, 
actin cytoskeletal rearrangement and adhesion in many cancers. However, P-Rex1 
expression and its prognostic effect and possible clinical value are not clearly 
elucidated in human oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Here, OSCC tissue 
microarrays were used to verify the expression levels of P-Rex1, coinhibitory 
immune checkpoints and tumor associated macrophage (TAM) markers, and to analyze 
the relationship between PREX1 expression levels and clinicopathological 
characteristics in OSCC. The study found that P-Rex1 expression was elevated in 
OSCC compared to dysplasia and normal mucosa (P < 0.0001). In addition, patients 
who expressed high PREX1 had a poorer prognosis than those who expressed low 
PREX1 (P = 0.0070). Furthermore, positive correlations were found between P-Rex1 
expression and the immune checkpoints PD-L1, Galectin-9 and B7-H4, and the TAM 
markers CD68, CD206 and CD163. In short, these findings implicated that 
overexpression of P-Rex1 may predict a poor prognosis in human OSCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s10735-020-09901-9
PMID: 32785873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Int Immunopharmacol. 2020 Nov;88:106889. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.106889.
Epub  2020 Aug 14.

Inhibition of B7-H4 promotes hepatocellular carcinoma cell apoptosis and 
autophagy through the PI3K signaling pathway.

Hao TT(1), Liao R(1), Lei DL(1), Hu GL(1), Luo F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, China.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, 400016, China. Electronic address: 
luofangdoctor19@163.com.

B7-H4 and autophagy can regulate or be induced by the PI3K signaling pathway. 
However, the association between B7-H4 and autophagy in hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC)remains unclear. The aim of this work was to investigate whether B7-H4 
regulates autophagy via the PI3K signaling pathway in HCC cells. Here, western 
blotting was used to measure the expression of the related proteins involved in 
changes in of autophagy and apoptosis, such as LC3, P62, cleaved caspase 3, 
cleaved PARP, BCL-2, and BAX in Huh7 and Hep3B cells. Additionally, 
PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway proteins were measured. Cell counting kit-8 and 
flow cytometry were used to analyze the effects of B7-H4 siRNA interference on 
cell proliferation with the interference of B7-H4 siRNA. We found that B7-H4 
siRNA increased HCC cell apoptosis and autophagy, and reduced cell 
proliferation. Moreover, the apoptosis-related proteins cleaved caspase 3, 
cleaved PARP and BAX were increased and Bcl-2 was decreased after B7-H4 siRNA 
interference. The expression level of the autophagy-related protein LC3Ⅱ was 
upregulated, while expression of the autophagy adaptor P62 expression was 
decreased in B7-H4 siRNA-pretreated cells. Furthermore, our data revealed that 
B7-H4 regulated apoptosis and autophagy through the PI3K signaling pathway in 
HCC cells. Therefore, these results suggested that B7-H4 plays an important role 
in HCC progression by affecting cell apoptosis and autophagy.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.106889
PMID: 32805693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


371. Pathol Res Pract. 2020 Oct;216(10):153134. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2020.153134.
Epub  2020 Jul 31.

B7-H4 and HHLA2, members of B7 family, are aberrantly expressed in EGFR mutated 
lung adenocarcinoma.

Chen Y(1), Hu R(2), Li X(2), Shi Z(3), Tian H(4), Feng J(5), Yu S(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University & Jiangsu Cancer Hospital & Jiangsu Institute of Cancer Research, 
Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, The Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University & Jiangsu Cancer Hospital & Jiangsu Institute of Cancer 
Research, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Jiangsu Hospital of Integrated Traditional Chinese 
and Western Medicine, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China.
(4)Department of Radiotherapy, Xinyi People's Hospital, Xinyi, Jiangsu Province, 
China.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, The Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University & Jiangsu Cancer Hospital & Jiangsu Institute of Cancer 
Research, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China. Electronic address: 
jifeng_feng@163.com.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, The Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University & Jiangsu Cancer Hospital & Jiangsu Institute of Cancer 
Research, Nanjing, Jiangsu Province, China. Electronic address: 
yushaorong2009@163.com.

BACKGROUND: In order to find new immune targets for lung cancer with different 
EGFR mutant status, we describe differential expression profiles of checkpoint 
molecules of the new discovery B7 family member to find new immune targets for 
lung cancer with different EGFR statuses.
METHODS: We performed immunohistochemistry with antibodies of B7-H3, B7-H4, 
VISTA, B7-H6, HHLA2, IDO-1, PD-L1 and CD8 in lung adenocarcinoma tissues 
constructed from 372 cases in the discovery cohort and 231 cases in the 
validation set. The differential expression profiles of these indices in EGFR 
mutant and wild-type lung adenocarcinoma was described and compared.
RESULTS: In the discovery cohort, the median IHC scores of B7-H4 and HHLA2 for 
the EGFR mutant group were significantly higher than those in the wild-type 
group (median score [interquartile range], mutant vs. wild type: 3.250 [0-7.000] 
vs. 5.000 [1.000-7.000], P = 0.045 for B7-H4; 8.000 [6.000-10.500] vs. 7.000 
[5.000-8.630] P = 0.003 for HHLA2). Meanwhile, the median IHC scores of IDO-1 
and PD-L1 in the wild-type group were significantly higher than those in the 
mutant group (median score [interquartile range], mutant vs. wild type: 1.000 
[0-5.000] vs. 3.000 [0-8.500], P = 0.000 for IDO-1; 0 [0-3.500] vs. 3.000 
[0-6.000], P = 0.000 for PD-L1). Results above was confirmed in the discovery 
cohort. The increased CD8 and decreased HHLA2 expression levels were associated 
with long disease-free survival in lung adenocarcinoma (P = 0.000 for CD8 
expression and P = 0.004 for HHLA2 expression).
CONCLUSIONS: B7-H4 and HHLA2 are promising immune targets for lung 
adenocarcinoma, especially for patients with EGFR mutation.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2020.153134
PMID: 32853956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Cancer Discov. 2020 Dec;10(12):1872-1893. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-20-0402.
 Epub 2020 Sep 16.

Pharmacologic Suppression of B7-H4 Glycosylation Restores Antitumor Immunity in 
Immune-Cold Breast Cancers.

Song X(#)(1), Zhou Z(#)(1), Li H(#)(2)(3), Xue Y(4), Lu X(4), Bahar I(3), Kepp 
O(5), Hung MC(6), Kroemer G(5)(7)(8)(9), Wan Y(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Pharmacology, the 
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Chemistry of Life Process 
Institute, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, 
Illinois.
(2)Research Center for Computer-Aided Drug Discovery, Shenzhen Institutes of 
Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Computational and Systems Biology, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(4)Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(5)Equipe labellisée par la Ligue contre le Cancer, Université de Paris, 
Sorbonne Université, Metabolomics and Cell Biology Platforms, Institut Gustave 
Roussy, Paris, France.
(6)Graduate Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Research Center for Cancer Biology 
and Center for Molecular Medicine, China Medical University, Taiwan.
(7)Pôle de Biologie, Hôpital Européen Georges Pompidou, France.
(8)Suzhou Institute for Systems Medicine, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Beijing, China.
(9)Department of Women's and Children's Health, Karolinska Institute, Karolinska 
University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(10)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Department of Pharmacology, the 
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Chemistry of Life Process 
Institute, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, 
Illinois. yong.wan@northwestern.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Cancer Discov. 2020 Dec;10(12):1789-1790.

Despite widespread utilization of immunotherapy, treating immune-cold tumors has 
proved to be a challenge. Here, we report that expression of the immune 
checkpoint molecule B7-H4 is prevalent among immune-cold triple-negative breast 
cancers (TNBC), where its expression inversely correlates with that of PD-L1. 
Glycosylation of B7-H4 interferes with its interaction/ubiquitination by AMFR, 
resulting in B7-H4 stabilization. B7-H4 expression inhibits doxorubicin-induced 
cell death through the suppression of eIF2α phosphorylation required for 
calreticulin exposure vis-à-vis the cancer cells. NGI-1, which inhibits B7-H4 
glycosylation causing its ubiquitination and subsequent degradation, improves 
the immunogenic properties of cancer cells treated with doxorubicin, enhancing 
their phagocytosis by dendritic cells and their capacity to elicit CD8+ 
IFNγ-producing T-cell responses. In preclinical models of TNBC, a triple 
combination of NGI-1, camsirubicin (a noncardiotoxic doxorubicin analogue) and 
PD-L1 blockade was effective in reducing tumor growth. Collectively, our 
findings uncover a strategy for targeting the immunosuppressive molecule B7-H4. 
SIGNIFICANCE: This work unravels the regulation of B7-H4 stability by 
ubiquitination and glycosylation, which affects tumor immunogenicity, 
particularly regarding immune-cold breast cancers. The inhibition of B7-H4 
glycosylation can be favorably combined with immunogenic chemotherapy and PD-L1 
blockade to achieve superior immuno-infiltration of cold tumors, as well as 
improved tumor growth control.See related commentary by Pearce and Läubli, p. 
1789.This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 1775.

©2020 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-20-0402
PMCID: PMC7710601
PMID: 32938586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest 
The authors declare no potential conflicts of interest.


373. J Immunother Cancer. 2020 Sep;8(2):e000406. doi: 10.1136/jitc-2019-000406.

Expression and clinical significance of PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and VISTA in 
craniopharyngioma.

Wang Y(1)(2), Deng J(3), Wang L(4)(5), Zhou T(2), Yang J(1), Tian Z(1), Yang 
J(1), Chen H(1), Tang X(1), Zhao S(2), Zhou L(1), Tong A(6), Xu J(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and Cancer Center, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Cardiovascular Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.
(5)Institute for Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Stanford 
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy and Cancer Center, West China Hospital, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China jianguo_1229@126.com aipingtong@scu.edu.cn.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China jianguo_1229@126.com aipingtong@scu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Craniopharyngioma (CP) is a common refractory tumor of the central 
nervous system. However, little is known about the expression and clinical 
significance of B7 family ligands/receptors in CP patients. Thus, we conducted 
the present study to address this issue in a cohort of 132 CP cases.
METHODS: We mapped and quantified the expression of B7 family ligands/receptors 
molecules programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1), B7-H3, B7-H4 and V-domain 
Ig-containing suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA) in 89 
adamantinomatous-type CP and 43 papillary-type CP samples using 
immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence. Associations between the marker 
levels, clinicopathological variables and survival were evaluated.
RESULTS: The positive rates of PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and VISTA in the cohort of 
132 CP cases were 76.5%, 100%, 40.2% and 80.3%, respectively. The cut-off values 
of PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and PD-L1 expression were determined by survival receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) package, which was 70, 182, 0 and 20, 
respectively. Elevated expressions of PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and VISTA were 
significantly associated with some clinicopathological characteristics. 
Kaplan-Meier analysis indicated that higher VISTA expressions correlated with 
better overall survival (OS) and progression-free survival (PFS) (p=0.0053 and 
p=0.0066, respectively). Multivariate Cox regression analysis indicated that 
VISTA was an independent prognostic factor for OS (p=0.018) but not for PFS 
(p=0.898).
CONCLUSIONS: We found variable expression of PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4 and VISTA 
proteins in CPs. The results suggest that the expression level of VISTA may be 
used as an important indicator to predict the OS and PFS of CPs. B7 family 
ligands/receptors could be potential immunotherapeutic targets when treating 
CPs.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jitc-2019-000406
PMCID: PMC7507895
PMID: 32958683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


374. Neoplasia. 2020 Nov;22(11):539-553. doi: 10.1016/j.neo.2020.08.007. Epub
2020  Sep 20.

The anti-B7-H4 checkpoint synergizes trastuzumab treatment to promote 
phagocytosis and eradicate breast cancer.

Hu X(1), Liu Y(2), Zhang X(2), Kong D(1), Kong J(2), Zhao D(1), Guo Y(2), Sun 
L(2), Chu L(2), Liu S(2), Hou X(1), Ren F(3), Zhao Y(3), Lu C(3), Zhai D(3), 
Yuan X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Hospital, The First Affiliated 
Hospital, College of Clinical Medicine, Medical College of Henan University of 
Science and Technology, Luoyang 471003, China; Henan Key Laboratory of Cancer 
Epigenetics, Cancer Hospital, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Clinical 
Medicine, Medical College of Henan University of Science and Technology, Luoyang 
471003, China.
(2)Henan Key Laboratory of Cancer Epigenetics, Cancer Hospital, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, College of Clinical Medicine, Medical College of Henan 
University of Science and Technology, Luoyang 471003, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Xinxiang Medical University, Xinxiang 453003, China.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Hospital, The First Affiliated 
Hospital, College of Clinical Medicine, Medical College of Henan University of 
Science and Technology, Luoyang 471003, China; Henan Key Laboratory of Cancer 
Epigenetics, Cancer Hospital, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of Clinical 
Medicine, Medical College of Henan University of Science and Technology, Luoyang 
471003, China. Electronic address: yuanxiangdrive@163.com.

Trastuzumab is a humanized mAb used to treat HER2-overexpressing breast cancer; 
however its mechanisms remain to be fully elucidated. Previous studies suggest a 
role for immunity in mediating trastuzumab-specific antitumor effects. This 
study evaluated the role(s) of trastuzumab and other antibodies on macrophage 
activation and Ab-dependent cell-mediated phagocytosis (ADCP) of HER2+ breast 
cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. We employed orthotopic implantation of HER2+ 
murine breast cancer (BC) cells in immunocompetent mouse models, a human HER2+ 
BC xenograft in an immune humanized mouse model, and human PDXs involving 
adoptive transfer of autologous macrophages to simulate an endogenous mammary 
tumor-immune microenvironment. Our study demonstrated that trastuzumab greatly 
and consistently increased macrophage frequency and tumor-cell phagocytosis, and 
that concurrent knockdown of B7-H4 by a neutralizing antibody increased immune 
cell infiltration and promoted an antitumor phenotype. Furthermore, neoadjuvant 
trastuzumab therapy significantly upregulated B7-H4 in the cancer-infiltrating 
macrophages of HER2+ BC patients, which predicted poor trastuzumab response. We 
suggest that strategies to specifically enhance ADCP activity might be critical 
to overcoming resistance to HER2 mAb therapies by inhibiting tumor growth and 
potentially enhance antigen presentation. Furthermore, these results advance the 
understanding of macrophage plasticity by uncovering a dual role for ADCP in 
macrophages involving elimination of tumors by engulfing cancer cells while 
causing a concomitant undesired effect by upregulating immunosuppressive 
checkpoints.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neo.2020.08.007
PMCID: PMC7509589
PMID: 32966956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. J Immunol Res. 2020 Sep 27;2020:4896727. doi: 10.1155/2020/4896727.
eCollection  2020.

B7-H4 Inhibits the Development of Primary Sjögren's Syndrome by Regulating Treg 
Differentiation in NOD/Ltj Mice.

Zheng X(1), Wang Q(1)(2), Yuan X(1), Zhou Y(1), Chu H(1), Wang G(1), Li X(1), 
Wang Y(3), Wei L(4), Wang L(1), Li X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
USTC, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(2)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, The People's Hospital of Bozhou, 
Bozhou, Anhui, China.
(3)Westmead Institute for Medical Research, University of Sydney, Westmead 2145 
NSW, Australia.
(4)Pharmacoepidemiology and Medication Safety Research Cluster, UCL School of 
Pharmacy, London WC1N 1AX, UK.

BACKGROUND: This study is aimed at exploring the role of B7-H4 in the 
pathogenesis of primary Sjögren's syndrome (pSS) in NOD/Ltj mouse.
METHODS: B7-H4 expression in salivary glands was examined by IHC, and lymphocyte 
infiltration was showed by H&E. Next, anti-B7-H4 mAb or immunoglobulin isotype 
was injected into NOD/Ltj mice. Cytokine levels were measured by quantitative 
RT-PCR, and immunoglobulins were measured by ELISA. T cell subsets were analyzed 
by flow cytometry. Last, we treated NOD/Ltj mice with B7-H4Ig and control Ig. 
CD4+Foxp3+ T cells were assessed by immunohistochemistry. Two-tailed Student's 
t-tests were used to detect the statistical difference in various measures 
between the two groups.
RESULTS: B7-H4 expression was remarkably reduced in salivary glands of NOD/Ltj 
mice at 15 weeks compared with the NOD/Ltj mice at 8 weeks. Anti-B7-H4 mAb 
treatment increased lymphocyte infiltration in salivary glands. Inflammatory 
cytokines including IL-12, IL-18, IL-1α, TNF-α, IFN-α, and BAFF were upregulated 
markedly in anti-B7-H4 mAb-treated mice compared to IgG isotype-treated mice. 
Flow cytometry analysis showed that anti-B7-H4 mAb-treated mice had lower levels 
of CD4+Foxp3+/CD4+ T cells in spleen. Moreover, Foxp3 mRNA levels of salivary 
glands were diminished in anti-B7-H4 mAb-treated mice. Flow cytometry analysis 
showed that anti-B7-H4 mAb inhibited CD4+Foxp3+/CD4+ T cell production, while 
B7-H4Ig would promote naïve CD4+ T into Treg differentiation. Administration 
with B7-H4Ig displayed significantly decreased lymphocyte infiltration in 
salivary glands and low levels of total IgM and IgG in serum. Analysis of 
inflammatory cytokines in salivary glands after B7-H4Ig treatment revealed that 
the mRNA levels of IL-12, IL-6, IL-18, IL-1α, TNF-α, and IFN-α were 
significantly downregulated in B7-H4Ig-treated mice compared to control Ig 
treatment. B7-H4Ig-treated mice had significantly higher levels of 
CD4+Foxp3+/CD4+ T cells in spleen. IHC in salivary gland revealed that 
CD4+Foxp3+ T cells of B7-H4Ig treatment mouse were more than control Ig 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings implicate that B7-H4 has a protective role for 
salivary gland epithelial cells (SGECs) and therapeutic potential in the 
treatment of pSS.

Copyright © 2020 Xu Zheng et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/4896727
PMCID: PMC7537676
PMID: 33062721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interests.


376. Life Sci. 2020 Dec 15;263:118604. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.118604. Epub 2020
Oct  20.

Molecular mechanisms of breast cancer chemoresistance by immune checkpoints.

Dastmalchi N(1), Safaralizadeh R(2), Baghbanzadeh A(3), Hajiasgharzadeh K(4), 
Roshani Asl E(5), Amini M(3), Baradaran B(6).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Department of Animal Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of 
Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Animal Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of 
Tabriz, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: safaralizadeh@tabrizu.ac.ir.
(3)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(4)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Connective Tissue Diseases Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(5)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Urmia University of 
Medical Sciences, Urmia, Iran.
(6)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. Electronic address: baradaranb@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Progression of resistance to chemotherapy in breast cancer (BC) has been 
recognized as a main factor in decreasing the survival of patients with this 
malignancy. Recent investigations have described the involvement of immune 
checkpoint molecules in the progress of drug resistance in breast carcinoma 
patients. In the present study, the molecular participation of immune checkpoint 
factors in chemoresistance of BC both in-vitro and in-vivo is reviewed. Numerous 
immune checkpoints such as PD-1/PD-L1, CTLA-4, B7-H3, B7-H4, B7-1, and B7-2 have 
been specified as positive regulators of resistance to various drug types in BC. 
In several molecular pathways of drug resistance in BC, immune checkpoints 
affect the chemoresistance of this cancer in a drug- and cell-type-dependent 
manner. In addition, immune checkpoints promote chemoresistance in response to 
particular drugs in specific BC cell lines. Furthermore, several the immune 
checkpoint molecules have not been evaluated in the field of the chemoresistance 
in breast malignancy either in-vitro or in-vivo. Overall, investigations have 
indicated that targeting immune checkpoint molecules may be considered as a 
novel method to improve existing anti-BC treatments.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2020.118604
PMID: 33096117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Front Genet. 2020 Sep 29;11:579737. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2020.579737.
eCollection  2020.

Ciliated Muconodular Papillary Tumors of the Lung: Distinct Molecular Features 
of an Insidious Tumor.

Yang X(1), Hou Y(1), Geng J(2), Geng J(1), Meng H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital, Harbin, 
China.
(2)Department of Radiology, Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital, Harbin, 
China.

INTRODUCTION: Ciliated muconodular papillary tumors (CMPTs) are rare special 
peripheral pulmonary nodule composed of different cell proportions, 
characterized by papillary structures and significant alveolar mucus. Because of 
their rarity, underrecognized processes, the full range clinical course and 
histogenesis of CMPTs remains uncertain.
METHODS: Molecular features of 5 CMPTs cases (one case with mucinous 
adenocarcinoma simultaneously) were observed by whole exon gene detection. The 
histological features of CMPTs and the development trends of three major 
constituent cells were studied by immunohistochemistry and PCR.
RESULTS: NGS revealed 77 gene mutations in the patient's tumor tissue and 31 
mutations in the border tissue. TMB of CMPT tends to TMB of cancer tissues, and 
both are higher than normal tissues, CMPT share the same phylogenetic tree with 
cancer tissues. Moreover, PDL1, B7H3, and B7H4 were overexpressed in high 
columnar cells and eosinophilic ciliated cells of CMPT, tends to cancer tissues, 
while LAG3 and siglec15 were not found in CMPT.
CONCLUSION: The high prevalence of driver gene mutations in CMPTs, similar TMB 
and phylogenetic tree with cancer tissues indicate their malignant potential. 
Distinct molecular and immune check point features of each component support the 
notion that ciliated columnar cells in CMPT are insidious with immune escape.

Copyright © 2020 Yang, Hou, Geng, Geng and Meng.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2020.579737
PMCID: PMC7550676
PMID: 33133167


378. Front Oncol. 2020 Oct 9;10:588530. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2020.588530.
eCollection  2020.

Increased Expression of SHMT2 Is Associated With Poor Prognosis and Advanced 
Pathological Grade in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Wu ZZ(1), Wang S(1), Yang QC(1), Wang XL(1), Yang LL(1), Liu B(1)(2), Sun 
ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST), Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
and Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral Maxillofacial Head and Neck Oncology, School and Hospital 
of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

This study focused on the expression of mitochondrial serine 
hydroxymethyltransferase (SHMT2) in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) and its 
correlation with clinical traits and the prognosis of OSCC patients. 
Immunochemical staining and Western blotting were used to quantify the 
expression of SHMT2 and related immune markers in OSCC. Using OSCC microarrays 
and The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database, we evaluated the association 
between SHMT2 and various clinical traits. We found that increased expression of 
SHMT2 was detected in OSCC and correlated with advanced pathological grade and 
recurrence of OSCC. By a multivariate Cox proportional hazard model, high 
expression of SHMT2 was shown to indicate a negative prognosis. In addition, in 
the OSCC microenvironment, increasing the expression of SHMT2 was associated 
with high expression levels of programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), CKLF-like 
MARVEL transmembrane domain containing 6 (CMTM6), V-type immunoglobulin 
domain-containing suppressor (VISTA), B7-H4, Slug, and CD317. In the future, 
more effort will be required to investigate the role of SHMT2 in the OSCC 
microenvironment.

Copyright © 2020 Wu, Wang, Yang, Wang, Yang, Liu and Sun.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2020.588530
PMCID: PMC7581701
PMID: 33163414


379. Int Immunopharmacol. 2021 Jan;90:107144. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.107144.
Epub  2020 Nov 10.

Overexpression of B7-H4 is associated with infiltrating immune cells and poor 
prognosis in metastatic colorectal cancer.

Ding S(1), Lv X(2), Liu Z(3), Zhan S(3), Xu Y(4), Zhang X(1), Liu C(5), Cao 
L(6).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology & Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical 
Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The First People's Hospital of Taicang, 
Taicang Hospital Affiliated to Soochow University, Suzhou, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Suzhou, China.
(4)Institute of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, 
China.
(5)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology & Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical 
Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, China. 
Electronic address: liucuiping1980@126.com.
(6)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology & Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical 
Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, China. 
Electronic address: caolei123@suda.edu.cn.

Metastasis commonly occurs in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients and confers a 
poor prognosis. B7-H4, an immune checkpoint molecule, has been found to be 
expressed in numerous tumor tissues and play critical roles in tumor 
progression. However, B7-H4 expression and its prognostic significance in 
different metastases from CRC remain unclear. In the present study, we screened 
a novel mouse anti-human B7-H4 monoclonal antibody (mAb) which exhibited a 
higher degree of recognition and sensitivity than the commercial reagent in 
immunohistochemistry (IHC). Using this antibody, overall 110 metastatic and 
paired primary lesions of CRC were analyzed for their expression of B7-H4, CD8 
and CD68. Our results showed that expression of B7-H4 and CD68 in metastastic 
lesions was significantly higher than that in matched primary lesions 
(P = 0.0016, P < 0.0001). We also found a significant increase of CD68-positive 
immune cell infiltration in the B7-H4 high expressing metastases (P = 0.041). 
Moreover, upregulated B7-H4 in metastatic lesions was correlated with poor 
prognosis of patients (P = 0.014), while in primary lesions, B7-H4 combined with 
CD8 was associated with the overall survival (OS) (P = 0.043). Further, B7-H4 
expression in metastatic lesions was significantly correlated with hazard ratio 
(HR) both in univariate and multivariate analysis. Altogether, B7-H4 in 
metastatic lesions is promising to be a potential prognostic indicator of CRC, 
and may promote tumor progression and metastasis of this cancer.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2020.107144
PMID: 33187907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Onco Targets Ther. 2020 Nov 18;13:11869-11882. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S282530. 
eCollection 2020.

Emerging Targets of Immunotherapy in Gynecologic Cancer.

Cheng H(1), Zong L(1)(2), Kong Y(1), Gu Y(1), Yang J(1), Xiang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 
Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China.

Although programmed cell death protein 1/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) 
and cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4) have been successfully applied in 
the treatment of tumors, their efficiency is still not high enough. New immune 
targets need to be identified in order to seek alternative treatment strategies 
for patients with refractory tumors. Immune targets can be divided into 
stimulating and inhibiting molecules according to their function after 
receptor-ligand binding. We herein present a compendious summary of emerging 
immune targets in gynecologic tumors. These targets included coinhibitory 
molecules, such as T cell immunoglobulin-3 (TIM-3), T cell immunoglobulin and 
ITIM domain (TIGIT), lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3), V-type immunoglobulin 
domain-containing suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA), and B7-H3 and B7-H4, 
and co-stimulatory molecules, such as CD27, OX40, 4-1BB, CD40, 
glucocorticoid-induced tumor necrosis factor receptor (GITR) and inducible 
co-stimulator (ICOS). In this review, the characteristics and 
preclinical/clinical progress of gynecological malignancies are briefly 
discussed. However, the potential mechanisms and interactions of immune targets 
need to be elucidated in further studies.

© 2020 Cheng et al.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S282530
PMCID: PMC7681579
PMID: 33239889

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


381. Cancer Discov. 2020 Dec;10(12):1789-1790. doi: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-20-1355.

A Sweet Approach to Heat Up Cancer Response to Immunotherapy.

Pearce OMT(1), Läubli H(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Tumour Microenvironment, Barts Cancer Institute, Queen Mary 
University of London, London, United Kingdom. o.pearce@qmul.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel and Division of Oncology, 
University Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

Comment on
    Cancer Discov. 2020 Dec;10(12):1872-1893.

Song and colleagues describe how N-glycans stabilize expression of checkpoint 
molecule B7-H4 that suppresses T-cell function. Inhibiting N-glycan 
stabilization of B7-H4 generates an immune hot cancer that is more responsive to 
combination therapies.See related article by Song et al., p. 1872.

©2020 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/2159-8290.CD-20-1355
PMID: 33262181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Microrna. 2020;9(5):346-353. doi: 10.2174/2211536609666201209152949.

miRNA-506-3p Directly Regulates rs10754339 (A/G) in the Immune Checkpoint 
Protein B7-H4 in Breast Cancer.

El Din GS(1), Youness RA(2), Assal RA(3), Gad MZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, German University in Cairo, New Cairo City, Main 
Entrance Al Tagamoa Al Khames, 11835, Cairo, Egypt.
(2)Pharmaceutical Biology Department, German University in Cairo, New Cairo 
City, Main Entrance Al Tagamoa Al Khames, 11835, Cairo, Egypt.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, German University in Cairo, New 
Cairo City, Main Entrance Al Tagamoa Al Khames, 11835, Cairo, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4 is a novel immune checkpoint protein that negatively regulates 
T cell activation and function. It is overexpressed in many malignant tumors, 
including Breast Cancer (BC). It was reported that the presence of the single 
nucleotide polymorphism rs10754339 (A/G) within the 3' UTR of the B7-H4 gene has 
a great influence on the risk and progression of BC as well as lymph node 
metastasis. On the other hand, mounting evidence demonstrated the potential of 
miR-506-3p to be employed in the diagnosis and treatment of a wide range of 
human malignancies. It is frequently down-regulated in BC despite its tumor 
suppressor role. Moreover, Myc, E2F and Rb proteins are key players in cell 
cycle regulation. In BC, the CDK-RB-E2F axis is extensively deregulated by 
several genetic mutations. Additionally, the potent proto-oncogene Myc is highly 
expressed in BC.
AIM: The main aims of the study were to investigate the potential role of 
miR-506-3p in the regulation of B7-H4 SNP rs10754339 (A/G) in BC and to uncover 
the influence of miR-506-3p on cell cycle and tumor progression in BC cell 
lines.
METHODS: This study employed different BC cell lines, including MDA-MB-231 and 
MCF7 cells. Several bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify the miRNA 
that could potentially target B7-H4 SNP rs10754339 (A/G). To confirm the binding 
Relative luciferase activity was measured using Dual Luciferase Reporter Assay. 
Transfection experiments were performed using miR-506-3p oligonucleotides using 
lipofection technique. Furthermore, vital cell cycle regulatory proteins such as 
cMyc, Rb, and E2F were transfected into BC cells using superfect. Finally, 
several functional analysis experiments were performed, such as MTT and wound 
healing assays.
RESULTS: miR-506-3p down-regulates the disease-associated rs10754339 "G" allele 
in B7-H4 gene. It also inhibits cell cycle progression by simultaneously 
regulating important cell cycle proteins, including RB, E2F and c-Myc. Moreover, 
miR-506-3p decreased cellular viability and migration capacity of MDA-MB-231 
TNBC cells and hormone receptor positive MCF-7 cells.
CONCLUSION: miR-506-3p is a potential tumor suppressor miRNA in BC that has a 
potential role in regulating B7-H4 SNP rs10754339 (A/G).

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/2211536609666201209152949
PMID: 33297930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Oral Dis. 2022 Mar;28(2):364-372. doi: 10.1111/odi.13766. Epub 2021 Jan 15.

Overexpression of CD168 is related to poor prognosis in oral squamous cell 
carcinoma.

Zhu SW(1), Wang S(1), Wu ZZ(1), Yang QC(1), Chen DR(1), Wan SC(1), Sun ZJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
and Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Head Neck Oncology, School & Hospital of 
Stomatology, Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

OBJECTIVES: Receptor for hyaluronic acid (HA)-mediated motility (RHAMM) is also 
known as CD168. This study proposed to elucidate the prognostic and 
clinicopathological significance of CD168 expression in oral squamous cell 
carcinoma (OSCC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Immune staining of a human tissue microarray and Western 
blot were used to reveal the expression level of CD168 in OSCC. Correlations 
between clinicopathological indexes and CD168 expression in OSCC patients were 
assessed.
RESULTS: Increased expression of CD168 was detected in OSCC tissues. High 
expression of CD168 indicated worse survival of patients (p < .05). Furthermore, 
high expression of CD168 was related to pathological grade in OSCC (p < .05). 
CD168 expression was positively related to programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1), 
CKLF-like MARVEL transmembrane domain-containing protein 6 (CMTM6), B7 homology 
4 protein (B7-H4), CD44, CD133, and Slug expression in OSCC.
CONCLUSION: This study revealed the overexpression of CD168 in OSCC and shed 
light on the prognostic significance of CD168 expression in OSCC patients.

© 2021 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/odi.13766
PMID: 33386685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Pathol Res Pract. 2021 Feb;218:153323. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2020.153323. Epub
2021  Jan 2.

B7-H4 induces epithelial-mesenchymal transition and promotes colorectal cancer 
stemness.

Feng Y(1), Yang Z(1), Zhang C(2), Che N(1), Liu X(1), Xuan Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of Medicine, Yanji, 
China; Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji, China.
(2)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of Medicine, Yanji, 
China; Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji, China. Electronic address: xuanyh1@ybu.edu.cn.

B7-H4 is a unique negative regulator of T cells that is typically significantly 
overexpressed in various carcinomas and is associated with poor prognosis. 
However, the effects of B7-H4 expression on epithelial-mesenchymal transition 
(EMT) and cancer stemness of colorectal cancer (CRC) are not entirely clear. In 
the present study, we used tissue samples from 98 patients with CRC and CRC cell 
lines to determine the clinicopathological significance of B7-H4 in CRC and its 
effects on CRC stemness. We performed immunohistochemical staining; 
immunofluorescence imaging; western blotting; and tumor sphere formation, wound 
healing, transwell migration, and in vivo tumorigenesis assays. B7-H4 expression 
was upregulated in CRC tissues and was associated with lymph node metastasis, 
distant metastasis, clinical stage, a shorter overall survival rate, and 
disease-free survival rate. Cox regression analyses indicated that B7-H4 is an 
independent poor prognostic factor for CRC. In addition, B7-H4 expression was 
correlated with the expression of EMT-related proteins and cancer 
stemness-related proteins. Moreover, immunohistochemical and immunoﬂuorescence 
analyses revealed that B7-H4 was correlated with CD133 and CD44 expression 
levels in both CRC tissues and HT29 and HCT116 cell lines. Conversely, B7-H4 
knockdown downregulated the expression of EMT- and cancer stemness-related 
proteins, while inhibiting tumor spheroid formation, cell migration, and 
invasion of CRC cell lines. These results indicate that B7-H4 can promote EMT 
and may be a novel stem cell marker, suggesting its potential as a prognostic 
biomarker for CRC.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2020.153323
PMID: 33429327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Genes Dis. 2019 Dec 20;8(1):25-37. doi: 10.1016/j.gendis.2019.12.004. 
eCollection 2021 Jan.

Immune checkpoint: The novel target for antitumor therapy.

Jiang X(1), Liu G(2), Li Y(1), Pan Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan, Hubei, 430072, PR China.
(2)Department of Radiology, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan 
University, Wuhan, Hubei, 430072, PR China.

Inhibitory checkpoint molecules include programmed cell death-1 (PD-1), 
programmed cell death ligand-1 (PD-L1), cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen-4 
(CTLA-4), human endogenous retrovirus-H Long terminal repeat-associating 2 
(HHLA2), B7 homolog 4 protein (B7-H4), T cell membrane protein-3 (TIM-3) and 
Lymphocyte-activation gene 3 (LAG-3), which are up-regulated during 
tumorigenesis. These pathways are essential to down-regulate the immune system 
by blocking the activation of T cells. In recent years, immune checkpoint 
blockers (ICBs) against PD-1, PD-L1, CTLA-4 or TIM-3 has made remarkable 
progress in the clinical application, revolutionizing the treatment of malignant 
tumors and improving patients' overall survival. However, the efficacy of ICBs 
in some patients does not seem to be good enough, and more immune-related 
adverse events (irAEs) will inevitably occur. Therefore, biomarkers research 
provides practical guidance for clinicians to identify patients who are most 
likely to benefit from or exhibit resistance to particular types of immune 
checkpoint therapy. There are two points in general. On the one hand, given the 
spatial and temporal differential expression of immune checkpoint molecules 
during immunosuppression process, it is essential to understand their mechanisms 
to design the most effective individualized therapy. On the other hand, due to 
the lack of potent immune checkpoints, it is necessary to combine them with 
novel biomarkers (such as exosomes and ctDNA) and other anticancer modalities 
(such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy).

© 2019 Chongqing Medical University. Production and hosting by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gendis.2019.12.004
PMCID: PMC7859424
PMID: 33569511


386. J Immunol Res. 2021 Feb 9;2021:6664453. doi: 10.1155/2021/6664453.
eCollection  2021.

Ultrasound May Suppress Tumor Growth, Inhibit Inflammation, and Establish 
Tolerogenesis by Remodeling Innatome via Pathways of ROS, Immune Checkpoints, 
Cytokines, and Trained Immunity/Tolerance.

Yang Q(1)(2)(3), Zhang R(1)(4), Tang P(5), Sun Y(1), Johnson C(1), Saredy J(6), 
Wu S(1), Wang J(1), Lu Y(1), Saaoud F(1), Shao Y(1), Drummer C 4th(1), Xu K(1), 
Yu D(7), Li R(4), Ge S(3), Jiang X(1)(6), Wang H(6), Yang X(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Cardiovascular Research and Inflammation, Translational, & 
Clinical Lung Research, Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University, 
Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA.
(2)Department of Ultrasonic Diagnosis and Treatment Center, XiAn International 
Medical Center Hospital, XiAn, China.
(3)Heart Center, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, Drexel University 
College of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Nephrology, Second Hospital of Shanxi Medical University, 
Shanxi Provincial People's Hospital, Taiyuan, Shanxi, China.
(5)Department of Orthopedics, Beijing Charity Hospital of China Rehabilitation 
Research Center, Beijing, China.
(6)Metabolic Disease Research & Thrombosis Research, Departments of 
Pharmacology, Microbiology and Immunology, Lewis Katz School of Medicine at 
Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA.
(7)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple 
University, Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA.

BACKGROUND: The immune mechanisms underlying low-intensity ultrasound- (LIUS-) 
mediated suppression of inflammation and tumorigenesis remain poorly determined.
METHODS: We used microarray datasets from the NCBI GEO DataSet repository and 
conducted comprehensive data-mining analyses, where we examined the gene 
expression of 1376 innate immune regulators (innatome genes (IGs) in cells 
treated with LIUS.
RESULTS: We made the following findings: (1) LIUS upregulates proinflammatory 
IGs and downregulates metastasis genes in cancer cells, and LIUS upregulates 
adaptive immunity pathways but inhibits danger-sensing and inflammation pathways 
and promote tolerogenic differentiation in bone marrow (BM) cells. (2) LIUS 
upregulates IGs encoded for proteins localized in the cytoplasm, extracellular 
space, and others, but downregulates IG proteins localized in nuclear and plasma 
membranes, and LIUS downregulates phosphatases. (3) LIUS-modulated IGs act 
partially via several important pathways of reactive oxygen species (ROS), 
reverse signaling of immune checkpoint receptors B7-H4 and BTNL2, inflammatory 
cytokines, and static or oscillatory shear stress and heat generation, among 
which ROS is a dominant mechanism. (4) LIUS upregulates trained immunity enzymes 
in lymphoma cells and downregulates trained immunity enzymes and presumably 
establishes trained tolerance in BM cells. (5) LIUS modulates chromatin 
long-range interactions to differentially regulate IGs expression in cancer 
cells and noncancer cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests novel molecular mechanisms that are utilized 
by LIUS to induce tumor suppression and inflammation inhibition. Our findings 
may lead to development of new treatment protocols for cancers and chronic 
inflammation.

Copyright © 2021 Qian Yang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/6664453
PMCID: PMC7889351
PMID: 33628851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests to 
disclose.


387. Bio Protoc. 2020 Jun 5;10(11):e3644. doi: 10.21769/BioProtoc.3644.
eCollection  2020 Jun 5.

Methodology for in vitro Assessment of Human T Cell Activation and Blockade.

Podojil JR(1), Ifergan I(1), Chiang MY(1), Meeks JJ(2)(3), Miller SD(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Microbiology-Immunology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(2)Department of Urology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Interdepartmental Immunobiology Center, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.

Methods to test both the functionality and mechanism of action for human 
recombinant proteins and antibodies in vitro have been limited by multiple 
factors. To test the functionality of a recombinant protein or antibody, the 
receptor, the receptor-associated ligand, or both must be expressed by the cells 
present within the in vitro culture. While the use of transfected cell lines can 
circumvent this gap, the use of transfected cell lines does not allow for 
studying the native signaling pathway(s) modulated by the specific recombinant 
protein or antibody in primary cells. The present protocol utilizes sort 
purified CD14+ monocytes and T cells, both CD4+ T cells and CD8+ T cells, from 
healthy donors in a co-culture system. This methodology is particularly relevant 
for testing recombinant proteins or antibodies that are putative therapeutics 
for the treatment of autoimmune disease and cancer. While the current protocol 
focuses on co-cultures containing B7-H4 expressing monocytes plus either 
autologous CD4+ T cells or CD8+ T cells, the protocol can be modified for the 
user's specific needs.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors; exclusive licensee Bio-protocol LLC.

DOI: 10.21769/BioProtoc.3644
PMCID: PMC7842510
PMID: 33659314

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors have no financial 
or non-financial competing interests relative to this protocol.


388. Exp Anim. 2021 Aug 6;70(3):333-343. doi: 10.1538/expanim.20-0178. Epub 2021
Mar  15.

Generation of avian-derived anti-B7-H4 antibodies exerts a blockade effect on 
the immunosuppressive response.

Lin TY(1), Tsai TH(2), Chen CT(3)(4), Yang TW(1), Chang FL(5), Lo YN(1), Chung 
TS(2), Cheng MH(6), Chen WC(7)(8), Tsai KC(9)(10), Lee YC(1)(11)(10)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)TMU Research Center of Cancer Translational Medicine, Taipei Medical 
University, No. 250, Wuxing Street, Taipei 11031, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Kaohsiung Armed Forces General Hospital, No.2, 
Zhongzheng 1st Rd., Lingya Dist., Kaohsiung 80284, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, No.110, Sec.1, Jianguo 
N. Rd., Taichung 40201, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Surgery, Taichung Veterans General Hospital, No.1650, Taiwan 
Boulevard Sect. 4, Taichung 40705, Taiwan.
(5)Ph.D. Program for Cancer Molecular Biology and Drug Discovery, College of 
Medical Science and Technology, Taipei Medical University and Academia Sinica, 
No. 250, Wuxing Street, Taipei 11031, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lo-Hsu Medical Foundation, Lotung Poh-Ai 
Hospital, No. 83, Nanchang St., Luodong Township, Yilan 26546, Taiwan.
(7)The School of Chinese Medicine for Post Baccalaureate, I-Shou University, 
No.1, Sec. 1, Syuecheng Rd., Dashu District, Kaohsiung 84001, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Chinese Medicine, E-Da Hospital, No.8, Yida Rd., Jiaosu Village 
Yanchao District, Kaohsiung 82445, Taiwan.
(9)National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine, Ministry of Health and 
Welfare, No. 155-1, Sec. 2, Linong St., Beitou District, Taipei 11221, Taiwan.
(10)Ph.D. Program in Medical Biotechnology, College of Medical Science and 
Technology, Taipei Medical University, No. 250, Wuxing Street, Taipei 11031, 
Taiwan.
(11)Ph.D. Program for Cancer Molecular Biology and Drug Discovery, College of 
Medical Science and Technology, Taipei Medical University, No. 250, Wuxing 
Street, Taipei 11031, Taiwan.
(12)Ph.D. Program in Biotechnology Research and Development, College of 
Pharmacy, Taipei Medical University, No. 250, Wuxing Street, Taipei 11031, 
Taiwan.
(13)Biomedical Commercialization Center, Taipei Medical University, No. 250, 
Wuxing Street, Taipei 11031, Taiwan.

For highly conserved mammalian protein, chicken is a suitable immune host to 
generate antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies have been successfully targeted with 
immunity checkpoint proteins as a means of cancer treatment; this treatment 
enhances tumor-specific immunity responses through immunoregulation. Studies 
have identified the importance of B7-H4 in immunoregulation and its use as a 
potential target for cancer treatment. High levels of B7-H4 expression are found 
in tumor tissues and are associated with adverse clinical and pathological 
characteristics. Using the phage display technique, this study isolated specific 
single-chain antibody fragments (scFvs) against B7-H4 from chickens. Our 
experiment proved that B7-H4 clearly induced the inhibition of T-cell 
activation. Therefore, use of anti-B7-H4 scFvs can effectively block the 
exhaustion of immunity cells and also stimulate and activate T-cells in 
peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Sequence analysis revealed that two isolated 
scFv S2 and S4 have the same VH complementarity-determining regions (CDRs) 
sequence. Molecule docking was employed to simulate the complex structures of 
scFv with B7-H4 to analyze the interaction. Our findings revealed that both 
scFvs employed CDR-H1 and CDR-H3 as main driving forces and had strong binding 
effects with the B7-H4. The affinity of scFv S2 was better because the CDR-L2 
loop of the scFv S2 had three more hydrogen bond interactions with B7-H4. The 
results of this experiment suggest the usefulness of B7-H4 as a target for 
immunity checkpoints; the isolated B7-H4-specific chicken antibodies have the 
potential for use in future cancer immunotherapy applications.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.20-0178
PMCID: PMC8390317
PMID: 33716253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: none


389. J Immunol Res. 2021 Mar 1;2021:6613247. doi: 10.1155/2021/6613247.
eCollection  2021.

Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor-Activated Neutrophils Express 
B7-H4 That Correlates with Gastric Cancer Progression and Poor Patient Survival.

Shan ZG(1), Yan ZB(1), Peng LS(2), Cheng P(2), Teng YS(2), Mao FY(2), Fan K(3), 
Zhuang Y(2), Zhao YL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery and Center of Minimal Invasive Gastrointestinal 
Surgery, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing 
400038, China.
(2)National Engineering Research Center of Immunological Products, Department of 
Microbiology and Biochemical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy and Laboratory 
Medicine, Third Military Medical University, Chongqing 400038, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Qijiang Hospital of the First Affiliated 
Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Qijiang, Chongqing 401420, China.

Neutrophils are prominent components of gastric cancer (GC) tumors and exhibit 
distinct phenotypes in GC environment. However, the phenotype, regulation, and 
clinical relevance of neutrophils in human GC are presently unknown. Here, 
immunohistochemistry, real-time PCR, and flow cytometry analyses were performed 
to examine levels and phenotype of neutrophils in samples from 41 patients with 
GC, and also isolated, stimulated, and/or cultured neutrophils for in vitro 
regulation assays. Finally, we performed Kaplan-Meier plots for overall survival 
by using the log-rank test to evaluate the clinical relevance of neutrophils and 
their subsets. In our study, neutrophils in tumor tissues were significantly 
higher than those in nontumor tissues and were positively associated with tumor 
progression but negatively correlated with GC patient survival. Most 
intratumoral neutrophils showed an activated CD54+ phenotype and expressed 
high-level immunosuppressive molecule B7-H4. Tumor tissue culture supernatants 
from GC patients induced neutrophils to express CD54 and B7-H4 in both 
time-dependent and dose-dependent manners. Locally enriched CD54+ neutrophils 
and B7-H4+ neutrophils positively correlated with increased 
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) detection ex vivo, and 
in vitro GM-CSF induced the expression of CD54 and B7-H4 on neutrophils in a 
time-dependent and dose-dependent manner. Moreover, GC tumor-derived GM-CSF 
activated neutrophils and induced neutrophil B7-H4 expression via Janus kinase 
(JAK)-signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling 
pathway activation. Furthermore, higher intratumoral B7-H4+ neutrophil 
percentage/number was found in GC patients with advanced tumor node metastasis 
stage and reduced overall survival following surgery. Our results illuminate a 
novel regulating mechanism of B7-H4 expression on tumor-activated neutrophils in 
GC, suggesting that functional inhibition of these novel GM-CSF-B7-H4 pathways 
may be a suitable therapeutic strategy to treat the immune tolerance feature of 
GC.

Copyright © 2021 Zhi-guo Shan et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/6613247
PMCID: PMC7962878
PMID: 33763491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


390. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Mar 6;22(5):2652. doi: 10.3390/ijms22052652.

The Regulatory Cross-Talk between microRNAs and Novel Members of the B7 Family 
in Human Diseases: A Scoping Review.

Ahangar NK(1)(2), Hemmat N(2), Khalaj-Kondori M(1), Shadbad MA(2)(3), Sabaie 
H(3), Mokhtarzadeh A(2), Alizadeh N(2), Derakhshani A(2)(4), Baghbanzadeh A(2), 
Dolatkhah K(2), Silvestris N(4)(5), Baradaran B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Biology, Faculty of Natural Sciences, University of 
Tabriz, Tabriz 5166616471, Iran.
(2)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz 
5165665811, Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz 
5166614766, Iran.
(4)IRCCS IstitutoTumori "Giovanni Paolo II" of Bari, 70124 Bari, Italy.
(5)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Human Oncology, University of Bari 
"Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.

The members of the B7 family, as immune checkpoint molecules, can substantially 
regulate immune responses. Since microRNAs (miRs) can regulate gene expression 
post-transcriptionally, we conducted a scoping review to summarize and discuss 
the regulatory cross-talk between miRs and new B7 family immune checkpoint 
molecules, i.e., B7-H3, B7-H4, B7-H5, butyrophilin like 2 (BTNL2), B7-H6, B7-H7, 
and immunoglobulin like domain containing receptor 2 (ILDR2). The current study 
was performed using a six-stage methodology structure and Preferred Reporting 
Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) guideline. PubMed, 
Embase, Scopus, Cochrane, ProQuest, and Google Scholar were systematically 
searched to obtain the relevant records to 5 November 2020. Two authors 
independently reviewed the obtained records and extracted the desired data. 
After quantitative and qualitative analyses, we used bioinformatics approaches 
to extend our knowledge about the regulatory cross-talk between miRs and the 
abovementioned B7 family members. Twenty-seven articles were identified that 
fulfilled the inclusion criteria. Studies with different designs reported 
gene-miR regulatory axes in various cancer and non-cancer diseases. The 
regulatory cross-talk between the aforementioned B7 family molecules and miRs 
might provide valuable insights into the pathogenesis of various human diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22052652
PMCID: PMC7962059
PMID: 33800752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest.


391. RETRACTED ARTICLE

Biomaterials. 2021 May;272:120777. doi: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2021.120777. Epub 
2021 Mar 25.

Phototherapy together with it triggered immunological response for Anti-HPV 
treatment of oropharyngeal cancer: Removing tumor and pathogenic virus 
simultaneously.

Liu Z(1), Yang X(1), Liu R(2), Bao J(1), An N(3), Jiang S(1), Miao S(1), Guo 
C(4), Qu G(5), Meng H(6).

Author information:
(1)Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital, Harbin, 150080, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Hospital, 
Guangzhou, China.
(3)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, 
Harbin, 150080, China.
(4)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Harbin Institute of Technology, 
Harbin, 150080, China. Electronic address: chongshenguo@hit.edu.cn.
(5)Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital, Harbin, 150080, China. Electronic 
address: guofanqu@126.com.
(6)Harbin Medical University Cancer Hospital, Harbin, 150080, China. Electronic 
address: menghongxue15@163.com.

Retraction in
    Biomaterials. 2021 Dec;279:121123.

Oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) is one of most common cancers that 
often brings lots of inconvenience to the patient in swallowing and phonation 
even after the operation. Moreover, OPSCC is typically as nodal metastases and 
high recurrence rate due to the high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) infection 
for 90% of patients. Obviously, completely curing OPSCC requires simultaneous 
removal of solid tumor and related pathogenic virus, which is very indispensable 
but never be realized by any kind of clinical therapy up to now. In this work, 
we selected the ZrC nanoparticles as difunctional photoactive substance for 
synchronous generation of hyperthermia and reactive oxygen species (ROS) under 
NIR excitation. The resultant synergistic photothermal and photodynamic 
treatment outcome contributed to an excellent anti-tumor effect. The 
phototherapy of this work was found not only to be able to damage cancer cells 
directly, but also could trigger the host immunity for further tumor removal and 
desirable HPV inactivation. An immunologic mechanism of this work was reasonable 
proposed by monitoring level of shock protein (HSP), calreticulin (CRT), T 
lymphocytes and dendritic cells (DCs) and immune check point of B7H3, B7H4 and 
PD-L1 post phototherapy. It was found that tumor-associated antigens of CRT 
("eat-me" signal), HSPs and cell debris were released as cancer cell damage, and 
then the adaptive immune system and the congenital immunity were triggered to 
activate DCs maturity, antigen presentation to T cells, proliferation of CD4+ 
and CD8+ T cells, recruiting macrophages and NK cells and so forth immune 
responses. Being the first example of using phototherapy for virus-related 
cancer study, this work opens the door for photo-immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2021.120777
PMID: 33813258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Am J Transl Res. 2021 Mar 15;13(3):1667-1675. eCollection 2021.

Immunomodulatory function of the active ingredients in traditional Chinese 
prescriptions on early stage esophageal cancer with dysplasia.

Jiang W(1), Qin N(2), Chen T(3), Xu J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Suqian Hospital of TCM Suqian 223800, Jiangsu 
Province, China.
(2)Department of Medical Nursing Teaching and Research, Nantong Health College 
of Jiangsu Province Nantong 226001, Jiangsu Province, China.
(3)Department of TCM, Affiliated Hospital of Nantong University Nantong 226001, 
Jiangsu Province, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the effects of the ingredients in a traditional Chinese 
prescription on the immune regulation of esophageal cancer in patients with 
early atypical hyperplasia.
METHODS: A total of 60 C57BL mice were randomly selected as the positive control 
group; another 240 C57BL mice were randomly divided into a blank control group 
(n=30), a 4NQO group (n=60) and an experimental group (n=120). The experimental 
group was divided into the prevention group which received carcinogens and the 
prescription composition simultaneously, and the treatment group which received 
carcinogens first and the prescription composition second. The lymphocyte 
proliferation responses in peripheral blood and spleen cells were determined, 
and the changes of CD4+, CD8+, B7H4, CD4+CD25+ before and after administration 
were measured.
RESULTS: The CD4+ cell concentration in the 4NQO group was significantly higher 
than that in the other four groups (P<0.05). No significant difference was found 
in the CD4+B7H4+ cell concentration among the five groups (P>0.05); the CD8+ 
concentration in the 4NQO and the prevention groups was significantly higher 
than that in the other three groups (P<0.05).
CONCLUSION: The composition of traditional Chinese prescriptions can improve 
antitumor immunity and slow down the development of esophageal precancerous 
lesions by inhibiting the expression of T cells on lymphocytes and the positive 
expression of B7H4 and CD4+ in esophageal cancer.

AJTR Copyright © 2021.

PMCID: PMC8014365
PMID: 33841688

Conflict of interest statement: None.


393. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2021 Sep;86(3):e13430. doi: 10.1111/aji.13430. Epub
2021  May 6.

Abnormal expression of the costimulatory molecule B7-H4 in placental chorionic 
villous and decidual basalis tissues of patients with preeclampsia and HELLP 
syndrome.

Duan L(1), Reisch B(1), Iannaccone A(1), Hadrovic E(1), Wu Y(2), Vogtmann R(1), 
Winterhager E(3), Kimmig R(1), Köninger A(1)(4), Mach P(1), Gellhaus A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, 
Germany.
(2)Institute of Molecular Biology, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(3)EMU/IMCES, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(4)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Clinic of the Order of St. John, St. 
Hedwigs Clinic, Regensburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4, a checkpoint molecule of the B7 family, regulates a broad 
spectrum such as T-cell activation, cytokine secretion, tumour progression, and 
invasion capacities. Our previous data revealed that soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) 
blood serum levels are elevated in women at high risk for the hypertensive 
pregnancy disorder preeclampsia (PE) in the first trimester, as well as in 
patients with confirmed early/late-onset PE.
AIM: We here aim to investigate the expression pattern of B7-H4 in placental 
tissues of PE and HELLP Syndrome versus control group.
METHODS: B7-H4 protein expression and localization were investigated by 
immunoblotting and co-immunohistochemistry in placental chorionic villous and 
decidual basalis tissues.
RESULTS: B7-H4 protein was prominently expressed at the cell membrane, in the 
cytoplasm of the syncytiotrophoblast (STB) and interstitial extravillous 
trophoblast (EVT). B7-H4 protein levels in placental chorionic villous tissue 
were significantly higher in women with early-onset/late-onset PE and HELLP, 
while it was decreased in decidual basalis tissues of early-onset PE and HELLP 
compared with controls.
CONCLUSION: B7-H4 was inversely expressed in placental chorionic villous and 
decidual basalis tissues of PE and HELLP patients. The increase in B7-H4 in the 
STB in PE and HELLP may lead to excessive apical expression and release of 
soluble B7-H4 in the maternal circulation. In contrast, the decrease in B7-H4 in 
decidual basalis tissues could be related to the decrease in invasion ability of 
the EVT in PE. Thus, the current results strongly suggest that B7-H4 is involved 
in the pathogenesis of PE and HELLP.

© 2021 The Authors. American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aji.13430
PMID: 33864713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Front Oncol. 2021 Mar 31;11:647526. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.647526.
eCollection  2021.

B7 Family Members in Lymphoma: Promising Novel Targets for Tumor Immunotherapy?

Zhang W(1)(2), Qiu Y(1)(2), Xie X(2), Fu Y(2), Wang L(1)(2), Cai Z(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Clinical Medicine, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, China.
(2)Central Laboratory, Linyi People's Hospital, Linyi, China.
(3)Bone Marrow Transplantation Center, Department of Hematology, The First 
Affiliated Hospital, College of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.

T cells play a vital role in the immune responses against tumors. Costimulatory 
or coinhibitory molecules regulate T cell activation. Immune checkpoint 
inhibitors, such as programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) and programmed death 
ligand 1 (PD-L1) have shown remarkable benefits in patients with various tumor, 
but few patients have displayed significant immune responses against tumors 
after PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy and many have been completely unresponsive. Thus, 
researchers must explore novel immune checkpoints that trigger durable antitumor 
responses and improve clinical outcomes. In this regard, other B7 family 
checkpoint molecules have been identified, namely PD-L2, B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4 and 
B7-H6. The aim of the present article was to address the expression, clinical 
significance and roles of B7 family molecules in lymphoma, as well as in T and 
NK cell-mediated tumor immunity. B7 family checkpoints may offer novel and 
immunotherapeutic strategies for patients with lymphoma.

Copyright © 2021 Zhang, Qiu, Xie, Fu, Wang and Cai.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.647526
PMCID: PMC8044412
PMID: 33869045

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


395. Sci Rep. 2021 Apr 19;11(1):8511. doi: 10.1038/s41598-021-88156-0.

Immuno-profiling and cellular spatial analysis using five immune oncology 
multiplex immunofluorescence panels for paraffin tumor tissue.

Parra ER(1), Ferrufino-Schmidt MC(2), Tamegnon A(2), Zhang J(3), Solis L(2), 
Jiang M(2), Ibarguen H(2), Haymaker C(2), Lee JJ(4), Bernatchez C(5), Wistuba 
II(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, Unit 951, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 2130 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX, 77030, USA. 
erparra@mdanderson.org.
(2)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, Unit 951, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 2130 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(3)Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(5)Department of Melanoma Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.

Multiplex immunofluorescence (mIF) has arisen as an important tool for 
immuno-profiling tumor tissues. We updated our manual protocol into an automated 
protocol that allows the use of up to seven markers in five mIF panels to apply 
to formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor tissues. Using a tyramide signal 
amplification system, we optimized five mIF panels that included cytokeratin to 
characterize malignant cells (MCs), immune checkpoint markers (i.e., PD-L1, 
B7-H3, B7-H4, IDO-1, VISTA, LAG3, ICOS, TIM3, and OX40), tumor-infiltrating 
lymphocytic markers (i.e., CD3, CD8, CD45RO, granzyme B, PD-1, and FOXP3), and 
markers to characterize myeloid-derived suppressor cells (i.e., CD68, CD66b, 
CD14, CD33, Arg-1, and CD11b). To determine analytical reproducibility and the 
impact of those panels for immuno-profiling tumor tissues, we performed an 
exploratory analysis in a set of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) samples. The 
slides were scanned, and the different cell phenotypes were quantified by 
simultaneous co-localizations with the markers using image analysis software. 
Comparison between the time points of staining showed high analytical 
reproducibility. The analysis of NSCLC cases showed an immunosuppressive 
microenvironment with PD-L1/PD-1 expression as a predominant axis. 
Interestingly, high density of MCs expressing B7-H4 was correlated with 
recurrence. Unexpectedly, MCs expressing OX40 were also detected, and those 
cells were a closer distance to CD3+T-cells than were MCs expressing other 
immune checkpoints. Two different cellular patterns of spatial distribution were 
determined according the CD3 distribution, and the predominant pattern was 
related with active immunosuppressive interaction with MCs. Our study shows that 
these five mIF panels can identify multiple targets in a single cell with high 
reproducibility. The study of different cell populations and their spatial 
relationship can open new ideas for therapeutic approaches.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-021-88156-0
PMCID: PMC8055659
PMID: 33875760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


396. Hum Pathol. 2021 Jul;113:20-27. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2021.04.003. Epub
2021  Apr 19.

Expression of B7-H4 and IDO1 is associated with drug resistance and poor 
prognosis in high-grade serous ovarian carcinomas.

Niu N(1), Shen W(2), Zhong Y(3), Bast RC Jr(4), Jazaeri A(5), Sood AK(5), Liu 
J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA; Department of Oncology, Tangdu Hospital, Xi'an, Shaanxi, 
710038, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA; Department of Pathology, The First Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, Jilin, 130021, China.
(4)Department of Experimental Therapeutics, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(5)Department of Gynecologic Oncology and Reproductive Medicine, The University 
of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX 77030, USA. Electronic address: jliu@mdanderson.org.

High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC) is the most lethal gynecologic 
malignancy. While immune checkpoint inhibitors against PD-L1 and CTLA-4 have 
shown significant effects in multiple tumor types, the response rate to 
single-agent immune checkpoint inhibitors is low in HGSC. Alternative biomarkers 
and targets must be identified to guide patient selection and new therapeutic 
strategies in HGSC. Here, we aim to investigate the clinical significance of 
novel immune modulators, including B7-H4, IDO1, Tim3, IL6, and IL-8, in patients 
with HGSC. A total of 48 patients with HGSCs, comprising 24 cases that were 
sensitive and 24 that were resistant to standard paclitaxel and carboplatin 
chemotherapy, were selected for our initial analysis. A NanoString assay 
including 33 immune-related genes was used to compare the expression of 
different immune regulatory molecules in the sensitive and resistant groups. 
Differentially expressed proteins were verified using multiplex 
immunohistochemical staining on tissue arrays of 202 patients with HGSCs who 
underwent primary surgery at MDACC. We analyzed the expression levels of immune 
checkpoints and compared expression profiles with clinicopathologic features 
including response, progression-free survival, and overall survival. HGSC tumors 
resistant to therapy expressed higher levels of B7-H4 (69.3%), IDO1 (71.8%), 
Tim3 (89.1%), and inflammatory factors IL-6 and IL-8, and expressed higher Tim3 
in stromal components. High expression of B7-H4 and IDO1 was associated with 
significantly lower overall survival and progression-free survival. B7-H4 and 
IDO1 were co-expressed in 49.1% of studied cases. A panel of immunomodulatory 
proteins including B7-H4, IDO1, Tim3, IL-6, and IL-8 are expressed at high 
levels in HGSCs. These modulators represent novel targets to enhance 
immunotherapy in patients with HGSCs.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2021.04.003
PMCID: PMC8219231
PMID: 33887301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: none.


397. Oncoimmunology. 2021 Apr 7;10(1):1907059. doi:
10.1080/2162402X.2021.1907059.

VISTA and PD-L1 synergistically predict poor prognosis in patients with 
extranodal natural killer/T-cell lymphoma.

He HX(1)(2), Gao Y(1)(2), Fu JC(1)(3), Zhou QH(4)(5), Wang XX(1)(2), Bai 
B(1)(2), Li PF(1)(2), Huang C(1)(2), Rong QX(1)(2), Ping LQ(1)(2), He YX(1)(2), 
Mao JY(1)(2), Chen X(4)(5), Huang HQ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China & Collaborative Innovation 
Center of Cancer Medicine, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, 
China.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, 
Guangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, 
China.
(4)Department of Urology, Sun Yat-sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-sen University, 
Guangzhou, China.
(5)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Malignant Tumor Epigenetics and Gene 
Regulation, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, 
China.

Although PD-1/PD-L1 blockade therapy confers salutary effects across cancer 
types, their efficacy in Extranodal Natural killer/T-cell lymphoma (ENKTCL) 
patients is limited and unpredictable. Here, we comprehensively evaluated the 
expression profile of a panel of immune-regulatory makers to identify novel 
prognostic biomarkers and/or therapeutic targets for this malignancy. Using 
immunohistochemistry and multiplex immunofluorescence, we found that the 
expression of VISTA (88.1%) was predominantly in CD68+ macrophages and much 
higher than PD-L1 expression (68.7%) in ENKTCL. B7-H4 and HHLA2 proteins were 
not detected in ENKTCL. B7-H3 was expressed in minority of ENKTCL patients 
(13.7%) and mainly colocalized with CD31. A close correlation was detected 
between VISTA and PD-L1, but they were not co-expressed in the same cells. High 
expressions of VISTA or PD-L1 were significantly associated with detrimental 
clinicopathological characteristics, dismal prognosis, and high density of 
CD8+ TILs, and high VISTA expression was also significantly associated with high 
density of Foxp3+ TILs. VISTA combined with PD-L1 was an independent prognostic 
factor for PFS and OS. Moreover, the patients with high VISTA showed a poor 
response to PD-1 blockades in ENKTCL. In conclusion, these findings provide a 
rationale for VISTA as an ideal immunotherapeutic target next to PD-L1 for 
ENKTCL.

© 2021 The Author(s). Published with license by Taylor & Francis Group, LLC.

DOI: 10.1080/2162402X.2021.1907059
PMCID: PMC8032243
PMID: 33889438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Apr 15;22(8):4109. doi: 10.3390/ijms22084109.

Immune Checkpoints, Inhibitors and Radionuclides in Prostate Cancer: Promising 
Combinatorial Therapy Approach.

Kgatle MM(1)(2), Boshomane TMG(1)(2), Lawal IO(1)(2), Mokoala KMG(1)(2)(3), 
Mokgoro NP(1)(3), Lourens N(4), Kairemo K(5)(6), Zeevaart JR(2)(7), Vorster 
M(1)(2)(3), Sathekge MM(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Pretoria & Steve Biko Academic 
Hospital, Pretoria 0001, South Africa.
(2)Nuclear Medicine Research Infrastructure (NuMeRI), Steve Biko Academic 
Hospital, Pretoria 0001, South Africa.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Steve Biko Academic Hospital, Pretoria 0001, 
South Africa.
(4)Department of Urology, University of Pretoria & Steve Biko Academic Hospital, 
Pretoria 0001, South Africa.
(5)Departments of Molecular Radiotherapy & Nuclear Medicine, Docrates Cancer 
Center, 00180 Helsinki, Finland.
(6)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(7)Radiochemistry, South African Nuclear Energy Corporation SOC (Necsa), 
Pelindaba 0001, South Africa.

Emerging research demonstrates that co-inhibitory immune checkpoints (ICs) 
remain the most promising immunotherapy targets in various malignancies. 
Nonetheless, ICIs have offered insignificant clinical benefits in the treatment 
of advanced prostate cancer (PCa) especially when they are used as 
monotherapies. Current existing PCa treatment initially offers an improved 
clinical outcome and overall survival (OS), however, after a while the treatment 
becomes resistant leading to aggressive and uncontrolled disease associated with 
increased mortality and morbidity. Concurrent combination of the ICIs with 
radionuclides therapy that has rapidly emerged as safe and effective targeted 
approach for treating PCa patients may shift the paradigm of PCa treatment. 
Here, we provide an overview of the contextual contribution of old and new 
emerging inhibitory ICs in PCa, preclinical and clinical studies supporting the 
use of these ICs in treating PCa patients. Furthermore, we will also describe 
the potential of using a combinatory approach of ICIs and radionuclides therapy 
in treating PCa patients to enhance efficacy, durable cancer control and OS. The 
inhibitory ICs considered in this review are cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 
(CTLA4), programmed cell death 1 (PD1), V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T 
cell activation (VISTA), indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), T cell 
Immunoglobulin Domain and Mucin Domain 3 (TIM-3), lymphocyte-activation gene 3 
(LAG-3), T cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT), B7 homolog 3 
(B7-H3) and B7-H4.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22084109
PMCID: PMC8071559
PMID: 33921181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


399. Front Oncol. 2021 Apr 15;11:600238. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.600238.
eCollection  2021.

The Expression of Three Negative Co-Stimulatory B7 Family Molecules in Small 
Cell Lung Cancer and Their Effect on Prognosis.

Qiu MJ(1), Xia Q(2), Chen YB(3), Fang XF(4), Li QT(1), Zhu LS(5), Jiang X(1), 
Xiong ZF(1), Yang SL(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Liyuan Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Institute of Pathology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)Institute of Pathology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(4)Department of Toxicology, Charles River Laboratories, Inc., Reno, NV, United 
States.
(5)Cancer Center, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of 
Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, immune checkpoint inhibitors have shown significant 
effects in a variety of solid tumors. However, due to the low incidence of small 
cell lung cancer (SCLC) and its unclear mechanism, immune checkpoints in SCLC 
have not been fully studied.
METHODS: We evaluated the expression of PD-L1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 in 115 SCLC 
tissue specimens using immunohistochemistry. The clinical data of patients with 
SCLC were retrospectively reviewed to investigate three negative co-stimulatory 
B7 family molecules' ability to affect the prognosis of SCLC.
RESULTS: Among the SCLC patients with complete follow-up data (n = 107), 
sixty-nine (64.49%) expressed moderate to high B7-H3 levels, which correlated 
positively with tumor sizes (P < 0.001). Eighty (74.77%) patients expressed 
moderate to high B7-H4 levels, which correlated positively with metastases (P = 
0.049). The positive expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 correlated significantly with 
shortened overall survival (OS) (B7-H3, P = 0.006; B7-H4, P = 0.019). PD-L1 was 
positively expressed only in 13.08% of cancer tissues, and there was no 
significant correlation with prognosis. The Cox proportional hazards regression 
showed that B7-H3 was an independent prognostic indicator of OS (P = 0.028; HR = 
2.125 [95% CI = 0.985-4.462]).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that B7-H3 has a negative predictive effect on 
SCLC. This outcome provides a theoretical basis for the subsequent research on 
immune checkpoint inhibitors targeting B7-H3.

Copyright © 2021 Qiu, Xia, Chen, Fang, Li, Zhu, Jiang, Xiong and Yang.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.600238
PMCID: PMC8082063
PMID: 33937019

Conflict of interest statement: XF was employed by Charles River Laboratories, 
Inc. The remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the 
absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could be construed as 
a potential conflict of interest.


400. Clin Exp Immunol. 2021 Aug;205(2):150-159. doi: 10.1111/cei.13610. Epub 2021
Jun  6.

Establishment of a novel double-monoclonal antibody sandwich enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA): tool for human B7-H4 detection in autoimmune 
diseases.

Ding S(1)(2), Zhou H(1)(2), Gu Y(1)(2), Shen Y(1)(2), Zhang L(3), Zhao H(3), Wu 
J(1), Zhang X(1), Chang X(1), Liu C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology & Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical 
Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, China.
(2)Suzhou Key Laboratory for Tumor Immunology of Digestive Tract, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Suzhou, China.
(3)Soochow University-Bright Scistar Antibody Joint Laboratory, Suzhou, China.

B7-H4, one of the immunoregulatory proteins, plays an inhibitory role by 
inhibiting T cell proliferation and cytokine production. Nevertheless, the 
significance of soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) in autoimmune diseases is unclear. In our 
study, we developed two novel mouse anti-human B7-H4 monoclonal antibodies 
(mAbs) (clones 8D4 and 7E1) with utilities for flow cytometry, immunoblotting 
and immunofluorescence. We characterized 7E1 as a functional antibody with 
antagonistic activity, which could promote T cell proliferation and regulate 
cytokine production. Furthermore, based on the different epitope specificities, 
we established a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) which could 
detect sB7-H4 sensitively and specifically. Using this ELISA kit, sB7-H4 was 
observed in a high proportion of autoimmune diseases patients. We found that the 
levels of sB7-H4 were significantly higher in patients with systemic lupus 
erythematosus (SLE), type I diabetes (T1D) and Graves' disease (GD). Together, 
sB7-H4 in human serum is regarded not only as a regulator of T cell activation 
but may also be a diagnostic marker of autoimmune diseases.

© 2021 British Society for Immunology.

DOI: 10.1111/cei.13610
PMCID: PMC8274208
PMID: 33961296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


401. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2022 Mar;71(3):565-578. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-021-03011-5. Epub 2021 Jul 18.

Elevated expression of B7 homolog 4 is associated with disease progression in 
upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma.

Mizuno T(#)(1), Kamai T(#)(2), Tsuzuki T(#)(3), Nishihara D(1), Kijima T(1), 
Arai K(1), Yoshida KI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Dokkyo Medical University, 880 Kitakobayashi Mibu, 
Mibu, Tochigi, 321-0293, Japan.
(2)Department of Urology, Dokkyo Medical University, 880 Kitakobayashi Mibu, 
Mibu, Tochigi, 321-0293, Japan. kamait@dokkyomed.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Surgical Pathology, Aichi Medical University, Nagakute, Aichi, 
Japan.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: B7 homolog 4 (B7-H4) is a negative regulator of immune responses, 
but its immunoregulatory role in the tumor microenvironment of upper urinary 
tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) remains unclear.
METHODS: We measured the immunohistochemical expression of B7-H4, CD8 and T cell 
intracellular antigen 1 (TIA-1), a marker of activated CD8, in 133 patients with 
UTUC who underwent nephroureterectomy. We also studied the relationship between 
B7-H4, CD8 and TIA-1 expression and clinicopathological characteristics.
RESULTS: B7-H4 was mainly expressed on the surface in tumor cells, while CD8 and 
TIA-1 were often expressed in tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes. Elevated 
expression of B7-H4 in tumor cells was associated with a poorer histological 
grade, higher pT stage, regional lymph node metastasis, lymphovascular invasion, 
poorer response of recurrent metastatic lesions to systemic chemotherapy and 
shorter overall survival. Expression of CD-8 or TIA-1 alone did not correlate 
directly with clinicopathological characteristics, but among the patients with 
higher B7-H4 expression in the primary tumors, those with higher CD8 or TIA-1 
expression had a better response to systemic chemotherapy, and longer survival, 
than these with lower CD8 or TIA-1 expression. Cox multivariate regression 
analysis revealed that higher expression of B7-H4 was associated with shorter 
overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that B7-H4 expression in the tumor 
microenvironment influences the progression of UTUC through cancer immunity and 
metabolic activity. Tumor cell-associated B7-H4 might be a potential target for 
cancer immunotherapies.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-021-03011-5
PMCID: PMC8854319
PMID: 34275008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


402. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2021 Jul 21;19(1):114. doi:
10.1186/s12958-021-00800-6.

Mifepristone inhibited the expression of B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4 and PD-L2 in 
adenomyosis.

Qin X(1), Sun W(1), Wang C(2), Li M(1), Zhao X(3), Li C(1), Zhang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Shandong Provincial Hospital 
Affiliated to Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, Shandong, 250021, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Surgery, Shandong Rongjun General Hospital, Jinan, Shandong, 
250013, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, 250000, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Shandong Provincial Hospital 
Affiliated to Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, Shandong, 250021, 
People's Republic of China. huizhang1218@126.com.

Erratum in
    Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2023 Oct 31;21(1):104.

BACKGROUND: The immune mechanism was shown to be involved in the development of 
adenomyosis. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the expression of the 
immune checkpoints B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4 and PD-L2 in adenomyosis and to explore 
the effect of mifepristone on the expression of these immune checkpoints.
METHODS: The expression of B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4 and PD-L2 in normal endometria 
and adenomyosis patient samples treated with or without mifepristone was 
determined by immunohistochemistry analysis.
RESULTS: In adenomyosis patient samples, the expression of B7-H2, B7-H3 and 
B7-H4 was increased in the eutopic and ectopic endometria compared with normal 
endometria, both in the proliferative and secretory phases. Moreover, the 
expression of B7-H2 and B7-H3 was higher in adenomyotic lesions than in the 
corresponding eutopic endometria, both in the proliferative and secretory 
phases. The expression of PD-L2 was higher in adenomyotic lesions than in normal 
endometria in both the proliferative and secretory phases. In the secretory 
phase but not the proliferative phase, the expression of B7-H4 and PD-L2 in 
adenomyotic lesions was significantly higher than that in the corresponding 
eutopic endometria. In normal endometria and eutopic endometria, the expression 
of B7-H4 was elevated in the proliferative phase compared with that in the 
secretory phase, while in the ectopic endometria, B7-H4 expression was decreased 
in the proliferative phase compared with the secretory phase. In addition, the 
expression of B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4 and PD-L2 was significantly decreased in 
adenomyosis tissues after treatment with mifepristone.
CONCLUSIONS: The expression of the immune checkpoint proteins B7-H2, B7-H3, 
B7-H4 and PD-L2 is upregulated in adenomyosis tissues and is downregulated with 
mifepristone treatment. The data suggest that B7 immunomodulatory molecules are 
involved in the pathophysiology of adenomyosis.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12958-021-00800-6
PMCID: PMC8293536
PMID: 34289871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


403. Front Oncol. 2021 Jul 8;11:662010. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.662010.
eCollection  2021.

The Expression of PD-L1 and B7-H4 in Thymic Epithelial Tumor and Its 
Relationship With Tumor Immune-Infiltrating Cells.

Yan X(1), Feng J(2), Hong B(3), Qian Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Blood Transfusion, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND: PD-L1 and B7-H4 have been reported to be expressed in various 
malignancies and are considered as promising prognostic factors and potential 
immunotherapy targets.
METHODS: We analyzed the correlation between the expression of PD-L1 and B7-H4 
transcriptomes and clinicopathological characteristics in 121 TET patients from 
The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database. The immune-infiltration levels in the 
TET microenvironment were estimated using ssGSEA and quanTiseq algorithms. We 
collected 80 TET cases from 2008 to 2015. PD-L1、B7-H4、FOXP3 and CD163 protein 
expression in tumor tissues were detected by immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: TCGA database showed PD-L1 mRNA levels can predict the OS (P = 0.018) 
and DFS (P = 0.033) of TET patients. B7-H4 mRNA levels were positively related 
to the World Health Organization (WHO) pathological classification (P = 0.003) 
but not correlated with patient prognosis. Immune infiltration analysis showed 
PD-L1 is positively correlated with Tregs and M2 macrophages, B7-H4 is 
positively correlated with Tregs. Patients with high PD-L1 and Tregs or M2 
macrophages, high B7-H4 and Tregs had a worse prognosis. Immunohistochemistry 
showed PD-L1 expression was positively correlated with the WHO pathological 
classification and Masaoka stage (P = 0.025, 0.003) and high PD-L1 expression 
can predict the poor OS of patients (P = 0.043); B7-H4 was also positively 
correlated with WHO pathological classification and Masaoka stage (P = 0.036, 
0.049). However, B7-H4 expression did not correlate with patient prognosis. 
Evaluation of co-expression patterns showed TET patients with a high-grade WHO 
pathological classification harbored a 44.4% co-expression of PD-L1 and B7-H4. 
In addition, we found the expression level of PD-L1 is positively correlated 
with FOXP3 and CD163 (P = 0.004, P = 0.029) and B7-H4 is positively correlated 
with FOXP3 (P = 0.037). High PD-L1 combined with High FOXP3 and High CD163, High 
B7-H4 combined with High FOXP3 can be used to predict the poor prognosis of TET 
patients (P = 0.026, 0.031, 0.028, respectively).
CONCLUSION: PD-L1 and B7-H4 were related to the aggressiveness of TET and their 
expression level can indicate the suppressive immune microenvironment. Combined 
with FOXP3 and CD163, PD-L1 and B7-H4 can indicate a poor prognosis of TET.

Copyright © 2021 Yan, Feng, Hong and Qian.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.662010
PMCID: PMC8297388
PMID: 34307135

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


404. Biomed Pharmacother. 2021 Sep;141:111913. doi: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.111913.
 Epub 2021 Jul 13.

Development of a novel anti-B7-H4 antibody enhances anti-tumor immune response 
of human T cells.

Miao G(1), Sun X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of pharmacy, The First People's Hospital of Xiaoshan District, 
Hangzhou 311200, China.
(2)Department of pharmacy, The First People's Hospital of Xiaoshan District, 
Hangzhou 311200, China. Electronic address: 2700979279@qq.com.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4 is a member of the B7 superfamily that is expressed on the 
surface of tumors and exhibits limited expression on normal tissue. B7-H4 
negatively regulates tumor immunity by interacting with the B7-H4 receptor, 
which is expressed by activated CD8 + T cells. Hence, we sought to generate an 
immunomodulatory antibody that targets B7-H4 and blocks the immunosuppressive 
activity of B7-H4.
METHODS: Anti-B7-H4 antibodies were generated using the hybridoma technique and 
screened by a binding assay based on B7-H4-expressing tumor cells. The B7-H4 
antagonistic antibodies were further screened based on their checkpoint blockade 
activity using a SEB-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) assay, 
which comprised B7-H4-expressing antigen presenting cells (APCs) and activated T 
cells. To assess the immunomodulatory activity of anti-B7-H4 antibodies, 
activated human CD8+ T cells were cultured in B7-H4 protein-coated plates, and 
the production of IL-2 and the proliferation rate of CD8+ T cells were measured. 
In addition, we evaluated the ADCC effect of anti-B7-H4 antibodies against tumor 
cell lines. The in vivo antitumor efficacy of the anti-B7-H4 antibody was also 
evaluated in human T cell-engrafted NOG mice.
RESULTS: A panel of anti-B7-H4 antibodies was generated. The top 23 antibodies 
were screened to identify antibodies that disabled B7-H4-mediated inhibition. 
Antibody 17 exhibited the greatest induction of the production of IL-2 and 
IFN-gamma in SEB-stimulated PBMCs. Antibody 17 was constructed as a chimeric 
antibody (CH17) with a human IgG1 constant domain. CH17 showed high affinity for 
human B7-H4 and fully cross-reacted with cynomolgus B7-H4. Additionally, CH17 
mediated potent antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity (ADCC) against different 
B7-H4-positive tumor cell lines. More importantly, CH17 relieved B7-H4-mediated 
T cell suppression by enhancing IL2 production and promoting T cell 
proliferation. In an MDA-MB-468-bearing mouse model in which human pan-T cells 
were engrafted, CH17 delayed tumor growth by engaging T cells and exerted a 
synergistic effect in combination with an anti-human PD-1 antibody.
CONCLUSIONS: We successfully generated an immunomodulatory antibody targeting 
B7-H4 that possesses both T cell immune checkpoint inhibitory activity and ADCC 
activity in B7-H4-positive tumors. B7-H4-targeting antibodies might represent a 
promising immunotherapy for B7-H4-expressing tumors.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2021.111913
PMID: 34328096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Front Immunol. 2021 Aug 31;12:651634. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.651634. 
eCollection 2021.

Soluble B7-CD28 Family Inhibitory Immune Checkpoint Proteins and Anti-Cancer 
Immunotherapy.

Khan M(1)(2), Arooj S(3), Wang H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, the First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, China.
(2)Inflammation and Immune Mediated Diseases Laboratory of Anhui Province, Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, China.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Sialkot, Sialkot, Pakistan.

Co-inhibitory B7-CD28 family member proteins negatively regulate T cell 
responses and are extensively involved in tumor immune evasion. Blockade of 
classical CTLA-4 (cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated antigen-4) and PD-1 
(programmed cell death protein-1) checkpoint pathways have become the 
cornerstone of anti-cancer immunotherapy. New inhibitory checkpoint proteins 
such as B7-H3, B7-H4, and BTLA (B and T lymphocyte attenuator) are being 
discovered and investigated for their potential in anti-cancer immunotherapy. In 
addition, soluble forms of these molecules also exist in sera of healthy 
individuals and elevated levels are found in chronic infections, autoimmune 
diseases, and cancers. Soluble forms are generated by proteolytic shedding or 
alternative splicing. Elevated circulating levels of these inhibitory soluble 
checkpoint molecules in cancer have been correlated with advance stage, 
metastatic status, and prognosis which underscore their broader involvement in 
immune regulation. In addition to their potential as biomarker, understanding 
their mechanism of production, biological activity, and pathological 
interactions may also pave the way for their clinical use as a therapeutic 
target. Here we review these aspects of soluble checkpoint molecules and 
elucidate on their potential for anti-cancer immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2021 Khan, Arooj and Wang.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2021.651634
PMCID: PMC8438243
PMID: 34531847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


406. Int J Immunogenet. 2021 Dec;48(6):500-509. doi: 10.1111/iji.12559. Epub 2021
Sep  23.

Association analysis of B7-H3 and B7-H4 gene single nucleotide polymorphisms in 
susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis in eastern Chinese Han population.

Chen Y(1)(2), Yang H(1)(2), Xu S(1)(2), Shen J(3), Xu W(1)(2), Shao M(1)(2), Pan 
F(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Major Autoimmune Diseases, Anhui Medical University, 
Hefei, Anhui, China.
(3)The First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, 
China.

This study was conducted to describe the association between the genetic 
variation of the recently identified immune checkpoint molecules B7-H3 and 
B7-H4, and the susceptibility to ankylosing spondylitis (AS). Two single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of B7-H3 gene and three SNPs of B7-H4 gene were 
genotyped in 649 AS patients and 646 age- and sex-matched healthy controls. 
Allele, genotype frequencies and different inheritance models were performed to 
calculate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and the 
demographic and clinical parameters of patients were recorded. Our data 
indicated that B7-H4 rs10801935 and rs3738414 polymorphisms were correlated with 
AS susceptibility. In the stratification analyses, the minor A allele and GA 
genotype of B7-H4 rs3738414 increased the risk of AS in male patients (OR = 
1.244, 95%CI = 1.026-1.508; OR = 1.453, 95%CI = 1.120-1.886, respectively). 
However, the association did not reach statistical significance after Bonferroni 
correction. Furthermore, haplotype analysis revealed that B7-H4 haplotype block 
TAG was a risk factor for the onset of AS (OR = 1.190, 95%CI = 1.020-1.389). 
These findings suggested that B7-H4 gene polymorphism may contribute to AS 
susceptibility in eastern Chinese Han population.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/iji.12559
PMID: 34555253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Semin Cell Dev Biol. 2022 Apr;124:26-33. doi: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2021.09.001.
Epub  2021 Sep 21.

Epigenetic regulation of immunosuppressive tumor-associated macrophages through 
dysregulated microRNAs.

Ahmad A(1).

Author information:
(1)Interim Translational Research Institute, Academic Health System, Hamad 
Medical Corporation, Doha, Qatar. Electronic address: aahmad9@hamad.qa.

Macrophages are immune cells that play different roles under different 
physiological conditions. They are present in all tissues where they primarily 
protect from bacteria and pathogens in addition to assisting in tissue repair. 
During tumor progression, macrophages can exert contrasting effects based on the 
M1 vs. M2 polarization. The M2 macrophages support tumor growth through 
mechanisms that help suppress immune responses and/or circumvent 
immune-surveillance. A number of such mechanisms such as production of IL-10 and 
arginase, and expression of PD-L1, V-domain Ig suppressor of T cell activation 
and B7 family molecule B7-H4 are now believed central to the immunosuppressive 
effects of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs). Emerging data has identified 
epigenetic regulation of these immunosuppressive mechanisms by small non-coding 
RNAs, the microRNAs (miRNAs). This review discusses the available literature on 
the subject, including the exosomes mediated transfer of miRNAs between cancer 
cells and the macrophages within the tumor microenvironment. A number of miRNAs 
are now believed to be involved in TAMs' production of IL-10 and expression of 
PD-L1 while the information on such regulation of other immunosuppressive 
mechanisms is slowly emerging. A better understanding of epigenetic regulation 
of macrophages-mediated immunosuppressive effect can help identify novel targets 
for therapy and aid the design of future studies aimed at sensitizing tumors to 
immune responses.

Copyright © 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semcdb.2021.09.001
PMID: 34556420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Oct 3;22(19):10719. doi: 10.3390/ijms221910719.

The Positive and Negative Immunoregulatory Role of B7 Family: Promising Novel 
Targets in Gastric Cancer Treatment.

Bolandi N(1)(2), Derakhshani A(1)(3), Hemmat N(1), Baghbanzadeh A(1), Asadzadeh 
Z(1), Afrashteh Nour M(1)(2), Brunetti O(4), Bernardini R(5), Silvestris 
N(4)(6), Baradaran B(1)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz 
516615731, Iran.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Urmia University of Medical 
Sciences, Urmia 571478334, Iran.
(3)Laboratory of Experimental Pharmacology, IRCCS Istituto Tumori Giovanni Paolo 
II, 70124 Bari, Italy.
(4)Medical Oncology Unit-IRCCS Istituto Tumori "Giovanni Paolo II" of Bari, 
70124 Bari, Italy.
(5)Department of Biomedical and Biotechnological Sciences, University of 
Catania, Via S. Sofia 97, 95100 Catania, Italy.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Human Oncology (DIMO), University of 
Bari, 70124 Bari, Italy.
(7)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz 516615731, Iran.
(8)Pharmaceutical Analysis Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences, Tabriz 516615731, Iran.

Gastric cancer (GC), with a heterogeneous nature, is the third leading cause of 
death worldwide. Over the past few decades, stable reductions in the incidence 
of GC have been observed. However, due to the poor response to common treatments 
and late diagnosis, this cancer is still considered one of the lethal cancers. 
Emerging methods such as immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) 
have transformed the landscape of treatment for GC patients. There are presently 
eleven known members of the B7 family as immune checkpoint molecules: B7-1 
(CD80), B7-2 (CD86), B7-H1 (PD-L1, CD274), B7-DC (PDCD1LG2, PD-L2, CD273), B7-H2 
(B7RP1, ICOS-L, CD275), B7-H3 (CD276), B7-H4 (B7x, B7S1, Vtcn1), B7-H5 (VISTA, 
Gi24, DD1α, Dies1 SISP1), B7-H6 (NCR3LG1), B7-H7 (HHLA2), and Ig-like 
domain-containing receptor 2 (ILDR2). Interaction of the B7 family of 
immune-regulatory ligands with the corresponding receptors resulted in the 
induction and inhibition of T cell responses by sending co-stimulatory and 
co-inhibitory signals, respectively. Manipulation of the signals provided by the 
B7 family has significant potential in the management of GC.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms221910719
PMCID: PMC8509619
PMID: 34639059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


409. J Leukoc Biol. 2021 Dec;110(6):1023-1031. doi: 10.1002/JLB.3MA0921-219RRRR.
Epub  2021 Oct 13.

Adoptive transfer of GRP78-treated dendritic cells alleviates 
insulitis in NOD mice.

Zhou X(1)(2), Yang M(1)(3), Lv Y(1), Li H(1), Wu S(4), Min J(5), Shen G(1), He 
Y(2), Lei P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, School of Basic Medicine, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine and PET Center, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan 
University, Wuhan, China.
(3)College of Biomedicine and Health and College of Life Science and Technology, 
Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan, China.
(4)Department of Immunology, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Southern Medical 
University, Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Proteomics, Guangzhou, China.
(5)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

The 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP78) has extracellular, 
anti-inflammatory properties that can aid resolving inflammation. It has been 
established previously that GRP78 induced myeloid CD11c+ cell differentiation 
into distinct tolerogenic cells. This tolerance induction makes GRP78 a 
potential therapeutic agent for transplanted allogeneic grafts and autoimmune 
diseases, such as type 1 diabetes. In this research, it is revealed that 
rmGRP78-treated NOD mice bone marrow-derived CD11c+ cells (GRP78-DCs) highly 
expressed B7-H4 but down-regulated CD86 and CD40, and retained a tolerogenic 
signature even after stimulation by LPS. In the assessment of in vivo 
therapeutic efficacy after the adoptive transfer of GRP78-DCs into NOD mice, 
fluorescent imaging analyses revealed that the transfer specifically homed in 
inflamed pancreases, promoting β-cell survival and alleviating insulitis in NOD 
mice. The adoptive transfer of GRP78-DCs also helped reduce Th1, Th17, and CTL, 
suppressing inflammatory cytokine production in vivo. The findings suggest that 
adoptive GRP78-DC transfer is critical to resolving inflammation in NOD mice and 
may have relevance in a clinical setting.

©2021 Society for Leukocyte Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/JLB.3MA0921-219RRRR
PMID: 34643294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Biomed Res Int. 2021 Oct 5;2021:5857092. doi: 10.1155/2021/5857092.
eCollection  2021.

B7-H4 Expression in Precancerous Lesions of the Uterine Cervix.

Zhang Q(1)(2), Zong L(3), Zhang H(2), Xie W(4), Yang F(5), Sun W(5), Cui B(1), 
Zhang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo College of 
Medicine, Shandong University, China.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Shandong First Medical University, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences, China.
(4)Department of Emergency, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Shandong First 
Medical University, China.
(5)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Shandong First 
Medical University, China.

Over 10% of patients diagnosed with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 
have no lesions detected in their cervical conization specimens. The purpose of 
this study was to determine the factors related to the absence of such lesions. 
We particularly sought to investigate whether the expression of B7-H4 in 
precancerous lesions and cancer of the uterine cervix plays a role in the 
presence or absence of residual lesions in conization specimens and whether this 
protein is associated with T cells (i.e., Foxp3+ regulatory T cells, CD4+, and 
CD8+) and interferon-γ production. Of the 807 patients with CIN treated by 
conization, 104 (12.9%) had no lesions in their conization specimens. 
Seventy-five of these patients were deemed the study group and were matched with 
75 patients who did have CIN detected in their conization specimens (the control 
group). Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence staining were used to detect 
B7-H4, Foxp3, CD4, CD8, and interferon-γ in the 75 pairs of specimens obtained 
via biopsy; 20 samples were found to have chronic cervicitis, and another 20 had 
squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix. Menopause, the absence of human 
papillomavirus, low-grade histological findings, and a diagnosis of CIN1 and 
CIN2 on biopsy correlated with a low probability of lesions on conization 
specimens. B7-H4 expression was detected in 11.1% of CIN2, 46.6% of CIN3, and 
70% of cervical cancer samples, but not in tissues representing chronic 
cervicitis or CIN1. B7-H4 expression was associated with the presence of lesions 
on conization specimens, increased regulatory T cells, decreased CD8+ T cells, 
and lower interferon-γ production. These data suggest that close follow-up and 
thorough reevaluation should be considered for patients diagnosed with CIN2 who 
are negative for B7-H4 expression on biopsy before proceeding with cervical 
conization.

Copyright © 2021 Qianqian Zhang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/5857092
PMCID: PMC8510792
PMID: 34651047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there is no conflict of 
interest regarding the publication of this paper.


411. Front Oncol. 2021 Oct 29;11:721067. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.721067.
eCollection  2021.

Association of Soluble B7-H4 and Circulating Tumor Cells in Blood of Advanced 
Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Patients.

Mach P(1), Kimmig R(1), Kasimir-Bauer S(1), Buderath P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Essen, Essen, 
Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is the deadliest gynecologic 
malignancy worldwide. Reliable predictive biomarkers are urgently needed to 
estimate the risk of relapse and to improve treatment management. Soluble 
immune-checkpoints in EOC are promising molecules serving as prognostic 
biomarkers accessible via liquid biopsy. We thus, aimed at elucidating the role 
of sB7-H4 in EOC.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We analyzed soluble serum B7-H4 (sB7-H4) using ELISA and 
circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in blood applying the AdnaTest OvarianCancer in 
85 patients suffering from advanced EOC. Findings were correlated with clinical 
parameters as well as survival data.
RESULTS: sB7-H4 was detectable in 14.1% patients, CTCs in 32.9% patients and 
simultaneous presence of CTCs and sB7-H4 was found in 7% patients, respectively. 
Although no association between sB7-H4 and CTC could be documented, each of them 
served as independent predictive factors for overall survival (OS).
CONCLUSION: sB7-H4 and CTCs are independent prognostic biomarkers for impaired 
survival in EOC. As they are easily accessible via liquid biopsy, they may be of 
potential benefit for the prediction of therapy response and survival for EOC 
patients.

Copyright © 2021 Mach, Kimmig, Kasimir-Bauer and Buderath.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.721067
PMCID: PMC8586654
PMID: 34778036

Conflict of interest statement: SK-B is a consultant for Qiagen. The remaining 
authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any commercial 
or financial relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


412. Bioengineered. 2022 Jan;13(1):107-118. doi: 10.1080/21655979.2021.2009411.

B7 family member H4 induces epithelial-mesenchymal transition and promotes the 
proliferation, migration and invasion of colorectal cancer cells.

Yin Y(1), Shi L(2), Yang J(1), Wang H(3), Yang H(1), Wang Q(4).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Center, Jiangsu Shengze Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, 
Jiangsu, Suzhou, China.
(2)Department of Ultrasound, Jiangsu Shengze Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Jiangsu, Suzhou, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital of Tongji 
University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Jiangsu Shengze Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Jiangsu, Suzhou, China.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a common malignancy of the gastrointestinal tract, 
which has the second highest incidence among gastrointestinal tumors. At 
present, due to the limitations of current CRC treatment strategies, there is an 
urgent need for developing more effective therapies. B7 family member H4 (B7-H4) 
is associated with the progression of a wide spectrum of cancers, but its 
functional role in CRC is unknown. The purpose of this study is to clarify the 
role of B7-H4 in CRC and the underlying mechanisms in controlling the 
progression of CRC. Our data showed that B7-H4 expression in CRC tissues and 
cell lines was significantly upregulated as compared with normal tissues and 
normal cell lines. High B7-H4 expression was correlated with a poor prognosis of 
CRC patients. B7-H4 overexpression promoted the proliferation and invasion of 
CRC cells, which could be suppressed by Wnt signaling inhibitor. In a mouse 
xenograft model, silencing B7-H4 suppressed tumor growth and 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of CRC cells. Collectively, our study 
demonstrated the oncogenic roles of B7-H4 in regulating the proliferation, EMT 
as well as the migration of CRC cells through Wnt signaling pathway. The 
heightened expression of B7-H4 could serve as a prognostic marker for CRC 
patients.

DOI: 10.1080/21655979.2021.2009411
PMCID: PMC8805878
PMID: 34818980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).


413. Oncogene. 2022 Jan;41(5):704-717. doi: 10.1038/s41388-021-02124-6. Epub 2021
Nov  27.

B7-H4 is increased in lung adenocarcinoma harboring EGFR-activating mutations 
and contributes to immunosuppression.

Lu Y(#)(1), Wu F(#)(2), Cao Q(#)(1), Sun Y(1), Huang M(3), Xiao J(4), Zhou 
B(5)(6)(7), Zhang L(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Bioinformatics, School of Biology & Basic Medical Sciences, 
Soochow University, Suzhou, China.
(4)Central Laboratory, Songgang People's Hospital of Shenzhen Baoan District, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.
(5)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. karichou@163.com.
(6)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu, China. karichou@163.com.
(7)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. karichou@163.com.
(8)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China. zliang@suda.edu.cn.
(9)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. zliang@suda.edu.cn.
(10)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu, China. zliang@suda.edu.cn.
(11)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. zliang@suda.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors have shown clinical benefit in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). 
However, the immunotherapy strategy is less effective in patients with 
EGFR-activating mutations (EGFR MT). Studies showed that besides low expression 
of PD-L1, the absence of TILs and distinct expression profile of immune 
checkpoint molecules might be associated with low response of the patient 
subset. In this study, we first compared CD8A, GZMB and PRF1 mRNA levels in 
different LUAD subtypes harboring different driver mutations by dataset analyses 
and investigated the association between 15 well-defined B7-CD28 family members 
and driver mutations. The results showed that the decreases in the density and 
function of CD8+ TILs, CD274 (PD-L1 gene), and CD86 and increases in VTCN1 
(B7-H4 gene) and HHLA2 were associated with LUAD with EGFR-activating mutations. 
Immunohistochemical staining studies further supported that PD-L1 was 
downregulated and B7-H4 was upregulated in the subtype. Furthermore, PD-L1 
expression was positively associated with levels of CD8A and granzyme B, while 
B7-H4 expression was negatively associated with granzyme B levels. In lung 
cancer cell lines, EGFR-activating mutations effectively upregulated B7-H4 and 
downregulated PD-L1. MEK/ERK-pathway activation upregulated B7-H4, and PI3K/Akt 
activation upregulated PD-L1. EGFR 19Del mutation was associated with inhibition 
of CD8+ T-cell function, while knocking down B7-H4 could reverse the inhibition, 
and further showed tumor-growth inhibition and longer survival in vivo. Taken 
together, this study shed light on that B7-H4 might be an alternative 
immune-checkpoint molecule and a potential therapeutic target for LUAD with EGFR 
MT.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41388-021-02124-6
PMID: 34839353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Mod Pathol. 2022 Jun;35(6):786-793. doi: 10.1038/s41379-021-00979-4. Epub
2021  Nov 30.

Expression of B7 family checkpoint proteins in cervical cancer.

Zong L(#)(1)(2)(3), Gu Y(#)(1)(3), Zhou Y(4), Kong Y(1)(3), Mo S(2), Yu S(2), 
Xiang Y(5)(6), Chen J(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(3)National Clinical Research Center for Obstetric & Gynecologic Diseases, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
China.
(5)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
China. xiangy@pumch.cn.
(6)National Clinical Research Center for Obstetric & Gynecologic Diseases, 
Beijing, China. xiangy@pumch.cn.
(7)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China. 
chenjie@pumch.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

The role of programmed cell death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) in cervical cancer has been 
widely investigated; however, the influences of other inhibitory B7 family 
members are poorly understood. We investigated the expression of PD-L1, B7 
homolog 3 (B7-H3), B7-H4, and V-domain Ig suppressor of T-cell activation 
(VISTA) and their association with the clinicopathological features and outcomes 
of a large cohort of 673 patients with squamous cell carcinoma or adenocarcinoma 
of the uterine cervix. The positivity rates for PD-L1 (combined positive score 
≥1), B7-H3 in tumor cells (TCs), B7-H4 (exclusively in TCs), VISTA in immune 
cells (ICs), and VISTA in TCs were 57.9%, 62.8%, 44.8%, 92.6%, and 4.8%, 
respectively, in 606 primary cervical cancer samples. Co-expression of PD-L1 
with B7-H3 in TCs and with B7-H4 and VISTA in ICs was observed in 38.8%, 25.4%, 
and 57.9% of samples, respectively. B7-H3 in TCs and B7-H4 and VISTA in ICs were 
observed in 58.1%, 46.6%, and 83.1% of PD-L1-negative samples, respectively. 
These proteins were observed more frequently in squamous cell carcinomas and in 
moderately to poorly differentiated carcinomas. VISTA (in ICs) and B7-H4 were 
more frequent in primary tumors than in recurrent counterparts and correlated 
with improved survival; in contrast, B7-H3 positivity in TCs was less frequent 
in primary tumors and correlated with short disease-specific survival. 
Co-expression of B7-H4 and VISTA in ICs was an independent predictor of 
favorable outcomes overall and among patients with PD-L1-negative tumors. These 
data indicate that B7 family proteins exhibit differing expression patterns, 
distributions, and prognostic implications in cervical cancer. Furthermore, the 
co-expression of PD-L1 with other checkpoint proteins suggests that PD-1/PD-L1 
blockade combined with modulating other immune checkpoints may present a novel 
therapeutic approach for cervical cancer. Future studies are needed to validate 
prognostic values of B7 family proteins and explore their biological roles in 
this malignancy.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to United States & Canadian 
Academy of Pathology.

DOI: 10.1038/s41379-021-00979-4
PMID: 34848831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Front Oncol. 2021 Nov 15;11:659662. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.659662.
eCollection  2021.

B7-H3 as a Target for CAR-T Cell Therapy in Skull Base Chordoma.

Long C(1), Li G(2), Zhang C(1), Jiang T(3), Li Y(4), Duan X(1), Zhong G(1).

Author information:
(1)Orthopedics Department, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, 
China.
(3)Orthopedics Department, Xiandai Hospital of Sichuan Province, Chengdu, China.
(4)Orthopedics Department, Fukang Hospital of Tibet, Chengdu, China.

OBJECTIVE: chordomas are rare bone tumors with few therapeutic options. Skull 
base and sacrum are the two most common origin sites. Immunotherapies are 
emerging as the most promising approaches to fight various cancers. This study 
tends to identify new cell surface targets for immunotherapeutic options of 
skull base chordomas.
METHODS: we profiled 45 skull base chordoma clinical samples by 
immunohistochemistry for the expression of six CAR-Targets (PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, 
VISTA, HER2 and HER3). In addition, we generated B7-H3 targeted CAR-T-cells and 
evaluated their antitumor activities in vitro.
RESULTS: We found that B7-H3 was positively stained in 7 out of 45 (16%) 
chordoma samples and established an expression hierarchy for these antigens 
(B7-H3 > HER3 > PD-L1 > HER2 = VISTA = B7-H4). We then generated a B7-H3 
targeted CAR vector and demonstrated that B7-H3-CAR-T-cells recognized antigen 
positive cells and exhibited significant antitumor effects, including 
suppression of tumor spheroid formation, CAR-T-cell activation and cytokine 
secretion.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results support B7-H3 might serve as a promising target for 
CAR-T-cell therapies against chordomas.

Copyright © 2021 Long, Li, Zhang, Jiang, Li, Duan and Zhong.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.659662
PMCID: PMC8634710
PMID: 34868903

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


416. Diagnostics (Basel). 2021 Dec 16;11(12):2370. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics11122370.

Expression of Immune Checkpoints in Malignant Tumors: Therapy Targets and 
Biomarkers for the Gastric Cancer Prognosis.

Mansorunov D(1), Apanovich N(1), Apanovich P(1), Kipkeeva F(1), Muzaffarova 
T(1), Kuzevanova A(1), Nikulin M(2), Malikhova O(2), Karpukhin A(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre for Medical Genetics, 1 Moskvorechye St., 115522 Moscow, 
Russia.
(2)N.N. Blokhin National Medical Research Center of Oncology of the Ministry of 
Health of Russia, 24 Kashirskoe Shosse, 115478 Moscow, Russia.

To increase the effectiveness of anticancer therapy based on immune checkpoint 
(IC) inhibition, some ICs are being investigated in addition to those used in 
clinic. We reviewed data on the relationship between PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, IDO1, 
Galectin-3 and -9, CEACAM1, CD155, Siglec-15 and ADAM17 expression with cancer 
development in complex with the results of clinical trials on their inhibition. 
Increased expression of the most studied ICs-PD-L1, B7-H3, and B7-H4-is 
associated with poor survival; their inhibition is clinically significant. 
Expression of IDO1, CD155, and ADAM17 is also associated with poor survival, 
including gastric cancer (GC). The available data indicate that CD155 and ADAM17 
are promising targets for immune therapy. However, the clinical trials of 
anti-IDO1 antibodies have been unsatisfactory. Expression of Galectin-3 and -9, 
CEACAM1 and Siglec-15 demonstrates a contradictory relationship with patient 
survival. The lack of satisfactory results of these IC inhibitor clinical trials 
additionally indicates the complex nature of their functioning. In conclusion, 
in many cases it is important to analyze the expression of other participants of 
the immune response besides target IC. The PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, IDO1 and ADAM17 
may be considered as candidates for prognosis markers for GC patient survival.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics11122370
PMCID: PMC8700640
PMID: 34943606

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


417. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2022 Mar;87(3):e13519. doi: 10.1111/aji.13519. Epub
2022  Jan 12.

Soluble PD-L1 and B7-H4 serum levels during the course of physiological 
pregnancy.

Mach P(1), Köninger A(2), Reisch B(1), Kimmig R(1), Gellhaus A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital of Essen, Essen, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Regensburg, Hospital 
of the Barmherzige Brueder, Clinic St Hedwig, Regensburg, Germany.

PROBLEM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the soluble programmed 
death-ligand (sPD-L1) and soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) serum concentration levels 
longitudinal throughout the three trimesters of uncomplicated pregnancies. 
METHOD OF THE STUDY: sPD-L1 and sB7-H4 levels were determined with enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The patients (n = 26) were divided into three 
groups according to the pregnancy trimester. Among 26 women involved in the 
study 14 had longitudinal sB7-H4 and sPD-L1 measurements in each trimester of 
pregnancy.
RESULTS: During the course of pregnancy, the sB7-H4 blood serum levels were 
significant higher in second trimester than in first and third trimester, 
whereas sPD-L1 levels increased significantly over the course of pregnancy.
CONCLUSION: The highest serum levels of sPD-L1 in the third trimester suggest 
increasing suppression of maternal immunity throughout pregnancy, whereas 
elevated sB7-H4 concentration levels in second trimester suggests different 
profile of T-cell regulation in physiological pregnancy.

© 2022 The Authors. American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aji.13519
PMID: 34974633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Cancer Cell Int. 2022 Jan 4;22(1):3. doi: 10.1186/s12935-021-02423-8.

The B7H4-PDL1 classifier stratifies immuno-phenotype in cervical cancer.

Chen L(#)(1), Dong J(#)(2), Li Z(#)(3), Chen Y(4), Zhang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Wuxi Maternal and Child Health Hospital Affiliated to 
Nanjing Medical University, No. 48 Huaishu Road, Wuxi, 214000, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Wuxi Maternal and Child Health Hospital Affiliated 
to Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, 214000, China.
(3)Wuxi Clinical Medical College, Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, 214000, 
China.
(4)Department of Oncology, Wuxi Maternal and Child Health Hospital Affiliated to 
Nanjing Medical University, No. 48 Huaishu Road, Wuxi, 214000, China. 
cyidiom1981@yeah.net.
(5)Department of Oncology, Wuxi Maternal and Child Health Hospital Affiliated to 
Nanjing Medical University, No. 48 Huaishu Road, Wuxi, 214000, China. 
zhangyan2020@njmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: It has been revealed that B7H4 is negatively correlated with PDL1 
and identifies immuno-cold tumors in glioma. However, the application of the 
B7H4-PDL1 classifier in cancers has not been well testified.
METHODS: A pan-cancer analysis was conducted to evaluate the immunological role 
of B7H4 using the RNA-sequencing data downloaded from the Cancer Genome Atlas 
(TCGA). Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and multiplexed quantitative 
immunofluorescence (QIF) were performed to validate the primary results revealed 
by bioinformatics analysis.
RESULTS: The pan-cancer analysis revealed that B7H4 was negatively correlated 
with PDL1 expression and immune cell infiltration in CeCa. In addition, patients 
with high B7H4 exhibited the shortest overall survival (OS) and relapse-free 
survival (RFS) while those with high PDL1 exhibited a better prognosis. 
Multiplexed QIF showed that B7H4 was mutually exclusive with PDL1 expression and 
the B7H4-high group exhibited the lowest CD8 + T cell infiltration. Besides, 
B7H4-high predicted highly proliferative subtypes, which expressed the highest 
Ki67 antigen. Moreover, B7H4-high also indicated a lower response to multiple 
therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: Totally, the B7H4-PDL1 classifier identifies the immunogenicity and 
predicts proliferative subtypes and limited therapeutic options in CeCa, which 
may be a convenient and feasible biomarker in clinical practice.

© 2021. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12935-021-02423-8
PMCID: PMC8728907
PMID: 34983532

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


419. Am J Clin Pathol. 2022 Jul 1;158(1):62-69. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/aqab221.

HHLA2 Immune Checkpoint Is a Novel Prognostic Predictor in Hepatocellular 
Carcinoma.

Liao X(1), Zhang D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, Rochester, NY, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Immunotherapy targeting PD-1/PD-L1 had low response rates and 
limited overall survival benefits in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC). We characterized the expression pattern and clinical significance of B7 
family immune checkpoint proteins HHLA2, PD-L1, and B7-H4 in HCC.
METHODS: Immunohistochemistry for HHLA2, PD-L1, B7-H4, CD3, and CD8 was 
performed on tissue microarray slides from 103 surgically resected HCC 
specimens.
RESULTS: Positive HHLA2 was detected in 63 (61.2%) cases, with 50 cases showing 
low expression and 13 cases showing high expression. Positive PD-L1 (combined 
positive score [CPS] ≥1) was detected in 27 (26.2%) cases, with the majority 
showing low expression (CPS <10) (n = 25) and only 2 cases showing high 
expression (CPS ≥10). The coexpression of PD-L1 and HHLA2 was observed in 17 
(16.5%) cases. B7-H4 expression was detected in only one (1.0%) case. 
HHLA2-positive cases had significantly better survival than HHLA2-negative cases 
(P = .042). Positive HHLA2 correlated with higher density of CD8+ intratumoral 
lymphocytes (P = .015). The subgroup with both HHLA2 expression and high CD8+ 
cell density exhibited the most favorable prognosis (P = .036).
CONCLUSIONS: HHLA2 is frequently expressed in HCC. Positive HHLA2 correlates 
with higher CD8+ cell density and favorable prognosis. HHLA2 may be considered a 
potential therapeutic immune target in HCC.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Society for Clinical Pathology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/aqab221
PMID: 35084443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. BMC Cancer. 2022 Feb 26;22(1):211. doi: 10.1186/s12885-022-09294-w.

Co-deficiency of B7-H3 and B7-H4 identifies high CD8 + T cell infiltration and 
better prognosis in pancreatic cancer.

Si S(1), Wang L(1), Cao H(1), Xu Y(1), Zhan Q(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Wuxi People's Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing 
Medical University, No. 299 Qing Yang Road, Wuxi, 214023, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Wuxi People's Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing 
Medical University, No. 299 Qing Yang Road, Wuxi, 214023, China. 
ryzhanqiang@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy is a novel hotspot for the treatment of pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma (PAAD). However, potential biomarkers which could identify the 
inflamed tumor microenvironment (TME) are urgently required.
METHODS: In the present study, we measured the levels of B7-H3, B7-H4, and major 
tumor-infiltrating immune cells (TIICs) using bioinformatics analyses and 
immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining on PAAD samples represented in the tissue 
microarray (TMA) format. Statistical analysis and figures exhibition were 
performed using R 4.1.0, SPSS 26.0, and GraphPad Prism 6.0.
RESULTS: B7-H3 and B7-H4 were up-regulated in PAAD compared with para-tumor 
tissues, and their expression exhibited no tight correlation in PAAD tissues. 
B7-H3 and B7-H4 were lowly expressed in well-differentiated PAAD tissues and 
correlated with poorly differentiated grades. Besides, single B7-H3 or B7-H4 
expression exhibited limited prognostic value, but co-deficiency of B7-H3 and 
B7-H4 predicted a better prognosis in PAAD. Moreover, co-deficiency of B7-H3 and 
B7-H4 indicated immuno-hot tumors with high CD8 + T cell infiltration.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, combined B7-H3 and B7-H4 expression is a promising 
stratification strategy to assess prognosis and immunogenicity in PAAD, which 
could be used as a novel classifier in clinical practice.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-022-09294-w
PMCID: PMC8881843
PMID: 35219310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.421. Exp Mol Pathol. 2022 Apr;125:104755. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2022.104755. Epub
2022  Mar 10.

B7-H4 expression promotes non-small cell lung cancer progression via AMPK/mTOR 
signaling.

Li M(1), Che N(2), Feng Y(2), Liu X(2), Piao L(3), Xuan Y(4), Jin Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Human anatomy and histoembryology, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji, China; Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji, China.
(2)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji, China; Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji, China.
(3)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji, China.
(4)Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji, China; Department of Pathology, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji, China. Electronic address: xuanyh1@ybu.edu.cn.
(5)Human anatomy and histoembryology, Yanbian University College of Medicine, 
Yanji, China; Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Yanbian University College of 
Medicine, Yanji, China. Electronic address: jinyu@ybu.edu.cn.

Several studies have demonstrated that B7-H4 is highly expressed in a variety of 
cancers and often affects tumor development. However, its role in cancer 
stemness and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) has not been reported. Here, we investigated the relationship 
between B7-H4 expression and cancer stemness and EMT by immunohistochemistry in 
106 NSCLC tissues obtained from patients. The results confirmed that B7-H4 is 
highly expressed in NSCLC tissues and closely correlated with the expression of 
EMT-related proteins (Snail, Vimentin) and cancer stemness-related proteins 
(SOX2, SOX9, and CD44). Immunofluorescence assay indicated that B7-H4 
colocalized with SOX2 and SOX9 in the nuclei of NSCLC cells. Additionally, upon 
knocking down B7-H4, the expression of SOX2, SOX9, and CD44, as well as of Snail 
and Vimentin was inhibited, whereas E-cadherin expression was enhanced in NSCLC 
cells. Meanwhile, inhibiting the expression of B7-H4 resulted in reduced 
invasion and migration ability of NSCLC cells. Mechanistically, silencing B7-H4 
activated the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase /mammalian target 
of rapamycin signaling, which in turn, negatively regulated cell proliferation, 
stemness, and migration. In conclusion, our results suggest that B7-H4 
expression is high in NSCLC tissues, and it has an effect on EMT and cancer 
stemness. This further suggests that B7-H4 has a potential role in promoting the 
progression of NSCLC and thereby could be a potential therapeutic target in 
NSCLC treatment.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2022.104755
PMID: 35278461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Immunity. 2022 Apr 12;55(4):701-717.e7. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2022.03.008.
Epub  2022 Mar 31.

Microbiota-dependent activation of the myeloid calcineurin-NFAT pathway inhibits 
B7H3- and B7H4-dependent anti-tumor immunity in colorectal cancer.

Peuker K(1), Strigli A(1), Tauriello DVF(2), Hendricks A(3), von Schönfels W(4), 
Burmeister G(3), Brosch M(1), Herrmann A(1), Krüger S(5), Nitsche J(1), Južnić 
L(1), Geissler MM(1), Hiergeist A(6), Gessner A(6), Wirbel J(7), Ponnudurai 
RP(7), Tunger A(8), Wehner R(8), Stange DE(9), Weitz J(9), Aust DE(10), Baretton 
GB(11), Schmitz M(12), Röcken C(5), Hampe J(1), Hinz S(3), Zeller G(7), Chavakis 
T(13), Schafmayer C(3), Batlle E(14), Zeissig S(15).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I, University Medical Center Dresden, Technische 
Universität (TU) Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany; Center for Regenerative 
Therapies Dresden (CRTD), Technische Universität (TU) Dresden, 01307 Dresden, 
Germany.
(2)Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB Barcelona), The Barcelona 
Institute of Science and Technology, Baldiri i Reixac 10, 08028 Barcelona, 
Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Cáncer (CIBERONC), 08028 
Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Department of General and Thoracic Surgery, University Medical Center 
Schleswig-Holstein, 24105 Kiel, Germany; Department of General Surgery, 
University Medicine Rostock, 18507 Rostock, Germany.
(4)Department of General and Thoracic Surgery, University Medical Center 
Schleswig-Holstein, 24105 Kiel, Germany.
(5)Institute of Pathology, University Medical Center Schleswig-Holstein, 24105 
Kiel, Germany.
(6)Institute of Clinical Microbiology and Hygiene, University Hospital 
Regensburg, 93042 Regensburg, Germany.
(7)Structural and Computational Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology 
Laboratory, 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(8)Institute of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine Carl Gustav Carus, Technische 
Universität Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany; National Center for Tumor Diseases 
(NCT), Partner Site Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany.
(9)National Center for Tumor Diseases (NCT), Partner Site Dresden, 01307 
Dresden, Germany; Department of Visceral, Thoracic and Vascular Surgery, 
University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Medical Faculty, Technische Universität 
Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany; German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), Partner Site 
Dresden, Dresden, Germany; German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), 69120 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(10)Institute of Pathology, University Medical Center Dresden, Technische 
Universität (TU) Dresden, Dresden, Germany; Tumor and Normal Tissue Bank of the 
University Cancer Center (UCC), University Medical Center Dresden, Technische 
Universität (TU) Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(11)Institute of Pathology, University Medical Center Dresden, Technische 
Universität (TU) Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(12)Institute of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine Carl Gustav Carus, Technische 
Universität Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany; National Center for Tumor Diseases 
(NCT), Partner Site Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany; German Cancer Consortium 
(DKTK), Partner Site Dresden, Dresden, Germany; German Cancer Research Center 
(DKFZ), 69120 Heidelberg, Germany.
(13)Institute for Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine, University Medical 
Center Dresden, Technische Universität (TU) Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany.
(14)Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB Barcelona), The Barcelona 
Institute of Science and Technology, Baldiri i Reixac 10, 08028 Barcelona, 
Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Cáncer (CIBERONC), 08028 
Barcelona, Spain; ICREA, Pg. Lluís Companys 23, 08010 Barcelona, Spain.
(15)Department of Medicine I, University Medical Center Dresden, Technische 
Universität (TU) Dresden, 01307 Dresden, Germany; Center for Regenerative 
Therapies Dresden (CRTD), Technische Universität (TU) Dresden, 01307 Dresden, 
Germany. Electronic address: sebastian.zeissig@tu-dresden.de.

Comment in
    Immunity. 2022 Apr 12;55(4):582-585.

Bacterial sensing by intestinal tumor cells contributes to tumor growth through 
cell-intrinsic activation of the calcineurin-NFAT axis, but the role of this 
pathway in other intestinal cells remains unclear. Here, we found that 
myeloid-specific deletion of calcineurin in mice activated protective CD8+ 
T cell responses and inhibited colorectal cancer (CRC) growth. Microbial sensing 
by myeloid cells promoted calcineurin- and NFAT-dependent interleukin 6 (IL-6) 
release, expression of the co-inhibitory molecules B7H3 and B7H4 by tumor cells, 
and inhibition of CD8+ T cell-dependent anti-tumor immunity. Accordingly, 
targeting members of this pathway activated protective CD8+ T cell responses and 
inhibited primary and metastatic CRC growth. B7H3 and B7H4 were expressed by the 
majority of human primary CRCs and metastases, which was associated with low 
numbers of tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells and poor survival. Therefore, a 
microbiota-, calcineurin-, and B7H3/B7H4-dependent pathway controls anti-tumor 
immunity, revealing additional targets for immune checkpoint inhibition in 
microsatellite-stable CRC.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2022.03.008
PMID: 35364006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests G.Z. is a named 
inventor on a patent (EP2955232A1: Method for diagnosing adenomas and/or 
colorectal cancer (CRC) based on analyzing the gut microbiome).


423. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2022 Apr 1;30(4):246-256. doi: 
10.1097/PAI.0000000000001001.

Comparison of the Clinicopathologic Features and T-Cell Infiltration of B7-H3 
and B7-H4 Expression in Triple-negative Breast Cancer Subtypes.

Kim NI(1), Park MH(2), Cho N(3), Lee JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology.
(2)Surgery, Chonnam National University Medical School.
(3)College of Pharmacy, Chonnam National University, Gwangju, South Korea.

Previously we revealed an upregulated expression of B7-H3 and B7-H4 mRNA and 
protein in breast cancer, including triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). 
However, little is known regarding the clinical impact and value of B7-H3 and 
B7-H4 in TNBC subtypes. Thus, this study evaluated the clinicopathologic effects 
of B7-H3 and B7-H4 mRNA and protein expression according to the TNBC subtypes. 
RNAscope in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry of B7-H3 and B7-H4 was 
done for 186 TNBC samples using tissue microarray. Immunohistochemistry was also 
performed for TNBC molecular subtype-surrogate markers, CD3, and CD8. TNBCs were 
classified into basal-like (BL) (64.5%), luminal androgen receptor (10.8%), and 
unclassifiable (24.7%) subtypes. Tumor B7-H4 mRNA expression was associated with 
younger age at the initial diagnosis and with molecular TNBC subtypes. 
Expression of B7-H3 mRNA and protein in the tumor cells was negatively 
correlated with CD3+ and CD8+ T-cell infiltration density in the tumor and/or 
stromal region of TNBCs and their subtypes. High stromal B7-H3 mRNA expression 
was associated with poor disease-free and overall survival in the TNBCs and with 
overall survival in the unclassifiable subtype. Stromal B7-H3 mRNA expression 
was independently associated with overall survival and disease-free survival in 
the TNBCs and BL subtype, respectively. Our results indicate the importance of 
the stromal expression of B7-H3 mRNA as a prognostic factor in the TNBCs and BL 
subtype. The inverse relationship between B7-H3 expression and CD3+ and CD8+ 
T-lymphocyte infiltration represents a promising target for immunotherapy for 
the TNBCs, especially the BL subtype.

Copyright © 2021 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/PAI.0000000000001001
PMCID: PMC8989634
PMID: 35384874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


424. Cancer Cell Int. 2022 Apr 11;22(1):147. doi: 10.1186/s12935-022-02567-1.

B7-H4 expression is upregulated by PKCδ activation and contributes to 
PKCδ-induced cell motility in colorectal cancer.

Zhou B(#)(1)(2)(3), Lu Y(#)(4), Zhao Z(4), Shi T(1)(2)(3), Wu H(1)(2)(3), Chen 
W(1)(2)(3), Zhang L(5)(6)(7), Zhang X(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu, China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China.
(5)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu, China. zliang@suda.edu.cn.
(6)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. zliang@suda.edu.cn.
(7)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 
China. zliang@suda.edu.cn.
(8)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. xueguangzh@126.com.
(9)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical Immunology, Soochow University, Suzhou, 
Jiangsu, China. xueguangzh@126.com.
(10)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. xueguangzh@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: B7-H4 is overexpressed in colorectal cancer (CRC) and plays an 
important role in tumor growth and immunosuppression. However, the exact 
mechanism that regulates B7-H4 expression remains largely unknown. Here, we 
investigated whether protein kinase C δ (PKCδ) regulates the expression of B7-H4 
in CRC.
METHODS: By using immunohistochemical (IHC) and immunofluorescence (IF) 
staining, we analyzed the expression of B7-H4 and phospho-PKCδ (p-PKCδ) in 225 
colorectal tumor samples and determined the clinical significance of the 
expression patterns. In vitro experiments were performed with the CRC cell lines 
HCT116 and SW620 to detect the effect of PKCδ activation on B7-H4 expression, 
and xenograft-bearing mice were treated with rottlerin to monitor the expression 
of B7-H4 and tumor metastasis.
RESULTS: The B7-H4 expression level was significantly correlated with the p-PKCδ 
level (r = 0.378, P < 0.001) in tumor tissues. Coexpression of p-PKCδ and B7-H4 
was significantly associated with moderate/poor differentiation (P = 0.024), 
lymph node metastasis (P = 0.001) and advanced Dukes' stage (P = 0.002). Western 
blot analysis showed that Phorbol-12-Myristate-13-Acetate (TPA) increased B7-H4 
expression in a concentration-dependent manner and that rottlerin abrogated the 
TPA-induced increase in B7-H4 expression. The protein levels of B7-H4 and 
p-STAT3 were significantly reduced by a PKCδ-specific siRNA. Moreover, the STAT3 
inhibitor cryptotanshinone significantly decreased the B7-H4 protein level in 
CRC cells. Knockdown of B7-H4 or PKCδ suppressed cell migration and motility. 
Rottlerin also inhibited B7-H4 expression and tumor metastasis in vivo.
CONCLUSION: The B7-H4 expression level is significantly correlated with the 
p-PKCδ level and tumor metastasis in CRC samples. B7-H4 expression is 
upregulated by STAT3 activation via PKCδ and plays roles in PKCδ-induced cancer 
cell motility and metastasis, suggesting that the PKCδ/STAT3/B7-H4 axis may be a 
potential therapeutic target for CRC.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12935-022-02567-1
PMCID: PMC8996430
PMID: 35410218

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


425. Biomedicines. 2022 Apr 16;10(4):918. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines10040918.

Expression of the Costimulatory Molecule B7-H4 in the Decidua and Placental 
Tissues in Patients with Placental Abruption.

Bączkowska M(1), Dutsch-Wicherek MM(2), Przytuła E(3), Faryna J(3), Wojtyła 
C(4), Ali M(5), Knafel A(1), Ciebiera M(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, Second Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, 01-809 Warsaw, Poland.
(2)Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, Department of Psychiatry, 01-809 
Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Pathology, Bielański Hospital, 01-809 Warsaw, Poland.
(4)International Prevention Research Institute-Collaborating Centre, Calisia 
University, 62-800 Kalisz, Poland.
(5)Clinical Pharmacy Department, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University, 
Cairo 11566, Egypt.

B7 homolog 4 protein (B7-H4), a member of the B7 family, is a immunomodulatory 
membrane protein. The aim of the study was to evaluate the expression of this 
protein in the decidua and placental tissues in case of placental abruption (PA) 
compared to cases of retained placental tissue (RPT) and controls. Tissue 
samples were obtained from 47 patients with PA, 60 patients with RPT, and 41 
healthy controls. The samples were stained for B7-H4 expression, analyzed by an 
expert pathologist, and a semi-quantitative scale was applied. A statistical 
analysis revealed that the expression of B7-H4 was significantly higher in the 
decidua in PA samples compared to samples from patients with RPT (p-value < 
0.001) and healthy controls (p-value < 0.001). The expression of B7-H4 in the 
placental chorionic villus was significantly higher in PA samples in relation to 
samples from healthy controls (p-value < 0.001) but not in relation to RPT 
samples (p-value = 0.0853). This finding suggests that B7-H4 might play an 
important role in mechanisms restoring reproductive tract homeostasis. Further 
research is necessary in regard to the role of B7-H4 in PA.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines10040918
PMCID: PMC9033103
PMID: 35453668

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


426. Neurotox Res. 2022 Jun;40(3):763-774. doi: 10.1007/s12640-022-00509-3. Epub
2022  Apr 25.

Depletion of B7-H4 from C3H10 T1/2 Mesenchymal Stem Cells Attenuates their 
Immunomodulatory Therapy in Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis Mice.

Li H(#)(1), Sun S(#)(1)(2), Yin Z(#)(1)(3), Cao S(1), Ji X(1), Duan X(1), Gao 
H(1), Wang M(4), Fang Q(1)(5), Dong W(1), Zhang X(5)(6), Gu Y(7)(8), Xue 
Q(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
188 Shizi Road, Suzhou, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Loudi Central Hospital, Loudi, Hunan Province, 
417000, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, 521 Hospital of NORINCO Group, Xi'an, China.
(4)Suzhou Red Cross Blood Center, Suzhou, 215006, China.
(5)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical 
Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, 215006, China.
(6)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 708 Renmin Road, Suzhou, China.
(7)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical 
Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, 215006, China. gyz_1982@yeah.net.
(8)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 708 Renmin Road, Suzhou, China. 
gyz_1982@yeah.net.
(9)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
188 Shizi Road, Suzhou, China. qxue_sz@163.com.
(10)Jiangsu Institute of Clinical Immunology, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Clinical 
Immunology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, 215006, China. qxue_sz@163.com.
(11)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Gastrointestinal Tumor Immunology, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 708 Renmin Road, Suzhou, China. 
qxue_sz@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Considering the controversial issue of whether MSC therapy is effective in the 
treatment of multiple sclerosis, it is important to seek more powerful data to 
clarify the effect of MSCs. B7-H4 is a unique costimulatory molecule that 
belongs to the B7 ligand family and is broadly expressed in both lymphoid and 
non-lymphoid tissues. Previous studies have shown that B7-H4 is involved in 
regulating the progression of autoimmune diseases. However, its role in MSCs and 
stem cell transplantation remains unclear. In this study, we focus on C3H10 T1/2 
cells, which are mouse-derived mesenchymal stem cells. And we investigated the 
role of B7-H4 in C3H10 T1/2 cells and explored its underlying mechanisms. As a 
result, downregulation of B7-H4 induced apoptosis and impaired the cell 
proliferation of C3H10 T1/2 cells. Further results showed that cells were 
arrested in the G0/G1 phase after knockdown of B7-H4. Furthermore, an EAE model 
was induced in female C57BL/6 mice by injecting MOG 35-55, and we investigated 
the effect of C3H10 T1/2 cell transplantation for the EAE model after 
downregulation of B7-H4 in vivo. We found that C3H10 cells can migrate to the 
area of spinal cord lesions, and depletion of B7-H4 attenuated the 
immunoregulatory effect of C3H10 T1/2 cells in vivo. Together, our findings 
suggest that B7-H4 is important for C3H10 cells to exert neurorestoration and 
therefore may be a potential molecular target for stem cell transplant 
strategies.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12640-022-00509-3
PMID: 35467252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2022 Apr 2;27(4):121. doi:
10.31083/j.fbl2704121.

CAR-T Cells Targeting Immune Checkpoint Pathway Players.

Golubovskaya V(1).

Author information:
(1)Promab Biotechnologies, Richmond, CA 94806, USA.

CAR (Chimeric antigen receptor)-T cell therapy has become a very promising type 
of immunotherapy against hematological cancers. This report is focused on CAR-T 
cells targeting immune checkpoint proteins expressed on tumor cells. The CD70, 
CD47, CD80, CD86, B7H3, B7H4, PDL-1, TIGIT CAR-T cells and other CAR-T cells are 
discussed as an effective approach to deplete tumor cells expressing checkpoint 
proteins. CAR-T cell therapy targeting checkpoint pathways is a promising 
therapy to decrease inhibitory signaling pathways. The review highlights future 
directions and perspectives in CAR-T cells targeting immune checkpoint pathways.

© 2022 The Author(s). Published by IMR Press.

DOI: 10.31083/j.fbl2704121
PMID: 35468680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: VG is an employee of Promab Biotechnologies. VG 
is serving as the guest editor of this journal. We declare that VG had no 
involvement in the peer review of this article and has no access to information 
regarding its peer review. Full responsibility for the editorial process for 
this article was delegated to GP.


428. Pathol Res Pract. 2022 Jun;234:153911. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2022.153911. Epub
2022  Apr 25.

Prognostic values of B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2 expression in human pancreatic 
cancer tissues based on mIHC and spatial distribution analysis.

Zhu Y(1), Chen J(2), Liu Y(3), Zheng X(4), Feng J(5), Chen X(6), Jiang T(7), Li 
Y(8), Chen L(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, the Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for Tumor Immunotherapy, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; 
Institute of Cell Therapy, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: zhuyulan1103@126.com.
(2)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, the Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for Tumor Immunotherapy, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; 
Institute of Cell Therapy, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: yisheng6@163.com.
(3)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, the Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for Tumor Immunotherapy, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; 
Institute of Cell Therapy, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: liuyingtingcz@163.com.
(4)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, the Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for Tumor Immunotherapy, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; 
Institute of Cell Therapy, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: zhengxiao@suda.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, the Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for Tumor Immunotherapy, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; 
Institute of Cell Therapy, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: sudafj92@sina.com.
(6)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, 
Jiangsu, China. Electronic address: czcxm007@126.com.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, 
China. Electronic address: tianweij@suda.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, the Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for Tumor Immunotherapy, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; 
Institute of Cell Therapy, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: liyuauda@163.com.
(9)Department of Tumor Biological Treatment, the Third Affiliated Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for Tumor Immunotherapy, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China; 
Institute of Cell Therapy, Soochow University, Changzhou 213003, Jiangsu, China. 
Electronic address: chenlujun@suda.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most malignant solid tumors and 
its 5-year survival rate remains poor. Although immunotherapy has achieved 
certain therapeutic efficacy in some clinical trials, such treatment still shows 
low responses and overall remission rate. Therefore, it is urgently necessary to 
dissect the tumor microenvironment and optimize the immunotherapeutic strategies 
against this malignancy.
METHODS: Using the multi-color immunohistochemistry assay, we investigated the 
expressions of B7-H3, B7-H4, HHLA2, CD8, and CD68 in 63 cases of PC tissues in a 
tissue microarray. Moreover, we analyzed immunolocalization features, clinical 
associations and prognostic values of these molecules.
RESULTS: The expressions of B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2 could be detected in 
cytokeratin staining positive (CK+) cancer epithelial cells, 
CD68+tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), and even other cells defined as 
CK-CD8-CD68-. Higher expression of B7-H3 in tumor cells could predict a better 
survival of the PC patients. A positive correlation was found between the 
expressions of B7-H3 and HHLA2 in tumor cells, while there was a negative 
correlation between the expressions of B7-H4 and HHLA2 in tumor cells. A 
positive correlation was found between the expressions of B7-H3 and B7-H4 or 
HHLA2 in CD68+TAMs, but not B7-H4 and HHLA2. Tumor-infiltrating CD8+T cells in 
combination with CD68+TAMs could serve as an important predictor for the 
postoperative prognosis of PC patients. Higher expression of B7-H3, or HHLA2 in 
CD68+TAMs could serve as an important predictor for poorer prognosis of PC 
patients. Patients with B7-H3lowB7-H4low, B7-H3lowHHLA2low, or B7-H4lowHHLA2low 
on CD68+TAMs could have a better postoperative prognosis compared with the other 
sub-populations in the combinational analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our study indicated variable expressions and 
prognostic values of B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2, in human PC tissues, and 
demonstrated that these co-stimulator molecules expressed by CD68+TAMs could be 
used as important bio-markers for the prognostic prediction of PC patients. 
Moreover, these results supported that the evaluation of these markers could be 
used as essential candidate targets for immunotherapy against PC.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2022.153911
PMID: 35489125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Parasit Vectors. 2022 May 3;15(1):157. doi: 10.1186/s13071-022-05263-1.

B7-H4 reduction induced by Toxoplasma gondii infection results in dysfunction of 
decidual dendritic cells by regulating the JAK2/STAT3 pathway.

Sun X(#)(1), Xie H(#)(1), Zhang H(#)(1), Li Z(1), Qi H(1), Yang C(2), Liu X(1), 
Ren L(3), Jiang Y(1), Hu X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 264003, 
Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Oral Biology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 264003, 
Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Medical Genetics and Cell Biology, Binzhou Medical University, 
Yantai, 264003, Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 264003, 
Shandong, People's Republic of China. xue-mei-hu@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Primary infection of Toxoplasma gondii can cause serious abnormal 
pregnancy outcomes such as miscarriage and stillbirth. Inhibitory molecule B7-H4 
is abundantly expressed in dendritic cells (DCs) and plays an important role in 
maintaining immune tolerance. However, the role of B7-H4 in decidual DCs (dDCs) 
in T. gondii-induced abnormal pregnancy outcomes is not clear.
METHODS: We established T. gondii-infected abnormal pregnancy model in wild-type 
(WT) and B7-H4 knockout (B7-H4-/-) pregnant mice in vivo and cultured primary 
human dDCs in vitro. The abnormal pregnancy outcomes were observed and the 
expression of B7-H4, functional molecules (CD80, CD86, and MHC-II or HLA-DR), 
indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), cytokines (IL-10 and IL-12), and signaling 
molecules JAK2/STAT3 in dDCs was detected by flow cytometry and Western blot.
RESULTS: Our results showed that T. gondii infection significantly decreased 
B7-H4 expression in dDCs. In addition, B7-H4-/- infected pregnant mice showed 
much more severe abnormal pregnancy outcomes than their counterparts. 
Importantly, B7-H4-/- infection further regulated the expression of molecules 
(CD80, CD86, and MHC-II or HLA-DR), enzyme IDO, and cytokines (IL-10 and IL-12) 
in dDCs. We further discovered that B7-H4-/- infection impairs the JAK2/STAT3 
pathway, contributing to dDC dysfunction.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the results show that reduction of B7-H4 by T. 
gondii infection significantly modulates the decrease in cytokine IL-10 and 
enzyme IDO and the increase in cytokine IL-12, contributing to dDC dysfunction. 
Moreover, the JAK2/STAT3 pathway is involved in the regulation of B7-H4 by T. 
gondii infection and in the subsequent IDO and cytokine production, which 
ultimately contributes to abnormal pregnancy outcomes.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-022-05263-1
PMCID: PMC9066748
PMID: 35505420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


430. J Interferon Cytokine Res. 2022 May;42(5):235-241. doi:
10.1089/jir.2021.0219.  Epub 2022 May 9.

Upregulation of B7-H4 Is Involved in and Related to the Severity of Acute 
Pancreatitis.

Gong J(1)(2), Chen W(2), Xu R(2), Jin Y(3), Huang J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Changshu Hospital Affiliated to Xuzhou 
Medical University, Changshu, China.
(2)Department of Emergency Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Suzhou 
University, Suzhou, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Suzhou 
University, Suzhou, China.

The expression and clinical significance of co-stimulator B7-H4 in acute 
pancreatitis (AP) is still unclear. In vitro study showed that the expression of 
soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) and proportions of membrane B7-H4-positive CD14+ cells in 
the peripheral blood mononuclear cells were upregulated in response to 
stimulation with plasma from AP patients, lipopolysaccharides, or tumor necrosis 
factor α (TNF-α). sB7-H4 in the plasma of AP patients were positively correlated 
with interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, IL-17A, TNF-α, and interferon-γ The areas under 
the curves (AUCs) of receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves of plasma 
sB7-H4 to distinguish the AP patients from healthy donors, the mild AP (MAP) 
from the moderately severe acute pancreatitis (MSAP)+severe acute pancreatitis 
(SAP) or the SAP from the MAP+MSAP were 0.78 (P < 0.001) or 0.773 (P < 0.001) or 
0.764 (P < 0.001). sB7-H4 in the plasma of patients were positively correlated 
with the RANSON scores, Bedside Index of Severity of Acute Pancreatitis scores, 
Marshall scores, and Acute Physiology And Chronic Health Evaluation II scores; 
and the AUCs of ROC curves of plasma sB7-H4 in the prediction of local 
complications was 0.726 (P = 0.001). In conclusion, the co-stimulator B7-H4 is 
involved in the immune response in AP.

DOI: 10.1089/jir.2021.0219
PMID: 35533007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Cells. 2022 Apr 25;11(9):1448. doi: 10.3390/cells11091448.

B7-H4 Immune Checkpoint Protein Affects Viability and Targeted Therapy of Renal 
Cancer Cells.

Emaldi M(1), Nunes-Xavier CE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Biomarkers in Cancer Unit, Biocruces Bizkaia Health Research Institute, Plaza 
de Cruces 12, 48903 Barakaldo, Spain.
(2)Department of Tumor Biology, Institute for Cancer Research, Oslo University 
Hospital, The Norwegian Radium Hospital, 0310 Oslo, Norway.

Targeted therapy in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors has been 
recently implemented in advanced or metastatic renal cancer treatment. However, 
many treated patients either do not respond or develop resistance to therapy, 
making alternative immune checkpoint-based immunotherapies of potential clinical 
benefit for specific groups of patients. In this study, we analyzed the global 
expression of B7 immune checkpoint family members (PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H2, B7-H3, 
B7-H4, B7-H5, B7-H6, and B7-H7) in human renal cancer cells (Caki-1, A-498, and 
786-O cell lines) upon treatment with clinically relevant targeted drugs, 
including tyrosine kinase inhibitors (Axitinib, Cabozantinib, and Lenvatinib) 
and mTOR inhibitors (Everolimus and Temsirolimus). Gene expression analysis by 
quantitative PCR revealed differential expression patterns of the B7 family 
members in renal cancer cell lines upon targeted drug treatments. B7-H4 gene 
expression was upregulated after treatment with various targeted drugs in Caki-1 
and 786-O renal cancer cells. Knocking down the expression of B7-H4 by RNA 
interference (RNAi) using small interfering RNA (siRNA) decreased renal cancer 
cell viability and increased drug sensitivity. Our results suggest that B7-H4 
expression is induced upon targeted therapy in renal cancer cells and highlight 
B7-H4 as an actionable immune checkpoint protein in combination with targeted 
therapy in advanced renal cancer cases resistant to current treatments.

DOI: 10.3390/cells11091448
PMCID: PMC9104196
PMID: 35563753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


432. J Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2022 Aug;80(8):1408-1423. doi: 
10.1016/j.joms.2022.03.019. Epub 2022 Apr 15.

Silencing of B7H4 Represses the Development of Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
Through Promotion of M1 Macrophage Polarization.

Chi J(1), Liu Y(1), Yang L(2), Yang J(3).

Author information:
(1)Resident, School of Stomatology, Qingdao University, Qingdao City, Shandong 
Province, China.
(2)Attending Doctor, School of Stomatology, Qingdao University, Qingdao City, 
Shandong Province, China.
(3)Professor, Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Affiliated Hospital, 
Qingdao University, Qingdao City, Shandong Province, China. Electronic address: 
yjjqd@126.com.

PURPOSE: Tumor-associated macrophages can support oral squamous cell carcinoma 
(OSCC) progression, and overexpression of the immunomodulator B7H4 correlates 
with poor prognosis of OSCC patients. We performed this study to assess the 
effect of B7H4 silencing on macrophage polarization and explore the potential 
mechanism of B7H4 during OSCC progression.
METHODS: Short hairpin RNA targeting B7H4 was used to knock down B7H4. The 
predictor variable was B7H4 expression level, and the outcome variables were 
SCC9 cell growth and metastasis, M1/M2 macrophage ratio, and anti-programmed 
death-1 (PD-1)/STAT3 pathway-related protein levels. These were measured through 
real-time qPCR, Western blot analysis, 
3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H tetrazolium bromide (MTT), 
5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine assay, and transwell assay. In addition, a tumor 
xenograft mouse model was used to examine the effect of B7H4 silencing (+/- 
Colivelin, an activator of STAT3) on tumor growth and macrophage polarization.
RESULTS: The expression of B7H4 in OSCC cell lines was more than 2-fold compared 
with that in human normal oral keratinocytes via real-time qPCR and Western blot 
analysis. Knockdown of B7H4 repressed the proliferation, migration, and invasion 
of SCC9 cells, which were detected by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine and transwell 
assay, as well as reduced PD-1/STAT3 pathway-related protein levels, promoted M1 
macrophage polarization, and inhibited M2 polarization. In vivo research 
demonstrated that B7H4 silencing also inhibited the growth of tumor xenograft 
and increased the M1/M2 ratio in an OSCC mouse model. Colivelin reversed the 
inhibitory effects of B7H4 knockdown on OSCC progression and reversed macrophage 
polarization both in vitro and in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: B7H4 is upregulated during OSCC progression. Its downregulation may 
promote M1 macrophage polarization and inhibit M2 macrophage polarization via 
deactivating the PD-1/STAT3 pathway, thus restraining OSCC development.

Copyright © 2022 American Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joms.2022.03.019
PMID: 35568099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. BMC Cancer. 2022 May 27;22(1):584. doi: 10.1186/s12885-022-09639-5.

Clinical significance and correlation of PD-L1, B7-H3, B7-H4, and TILs in 
pancreatic cancer.

Yang J(#)(1), Tian Z(#)(2), Gao H(#)(3), Xiong F(1), Cao C(1), Yu J(1), Shi 
W(1), Zhan Q(4), Yang C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The Affiliated Wuxi People's Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, 214023, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The Affiliated Wuxi People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, 214023, China.
(3)Wuxi School of Medicine, Jiangnan University, Wuxi, 214122, China.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology, The Affiliated Wuxi People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, No. 299 Qing Yang Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, 
214023, China. ryzhangqiang@163.com.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology, The Affiliated Wuxi People's Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, No. 299 Qing Yang Road, Wuxi, Jiangsu Province, 
214023, China. yang_301@njmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: B7 molecules play significant roles in regulating tumor immunity, 
but their expression patterns and immuno-biological correlations in pancreatic 
cancer (PaCa) have not been fully discussed.
METHODS: RNA-sequencing data of B7 molecules of PaCa samples in the Cancer 
Genome Atlas (TCGA) dataset was downloaded from the UCSC Xena to assess the 
expression, correlation, and mutation of the B7 family in PaCa. Next, two PaCa 
tissue microarrays (TMAs, Cat. HPanA150CS02 and HPanA120Su02) were obtained from 
Outdo BioTech (Shanghai, China). To detect the expression levels of PD-L1, B7-H3 
and B7-H4, immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining was performed on these TMAs.
RESULTS: Most B7 molecules, including B7-1, B7-2, PD-L1, B7-DC, B7-H2, and B7-H5 
exhibited similar expression patterns, but B7-H3, B7-H4, B7-H6, and B7-H7 showed 
outlier expression patterns compared with other B7 molecules. Besides, B7 
molecules were genetically stable and exhibited low alteration frequency. IHC 
staining indicated PD-L1, B7-H3, and B7-H4 were up-regulated in PaCa tissues and 
showed uncorrelated expression patterns. Furthermore, high expression of PD-L1 
and B7-H3 indicated poor-differentiated grades in PaCa. PD-L1 was positively, 
but B7-H4 was negatively correlated with CD8+ TILs infiltration in PaCa. 
Moreover, combined PD-L1 and B7-H4 expression was a novel subtyping strategy in 
PaCa, namely patients with both high PD-L1 and B7-H4 expression exhibited 
decreased CD8+ TILs infiltration in tumor tissues.
CONCLUSION: Overall, we systemically analyzed the expression patterns of B7 
molecules and proposed a novel subtyping strategy in PaCa. Patients with both 
high PD-L1 and B7-H4 expression exhibited the immuno-cold phenotype, which may 
be not suitable for immunotherapy.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-022-09639-5
PMCID: PMC9137118
PMID: 35624419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


434. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2023 Feb 1;147(2):193-201. doi:
10.5858/arpa.2021-0377-OA.

Expression and Prognostic Value of B7 Family Immune Checkpoints in Pancreatic 
Neuroendocrine Tumors.

Mo S(1)(2), Zong L(1)(2), Chen X(1), Ban X(1), Li M(1), Lu Z(1), Yu S(1), Chen 
J(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Mo and Zong contributed equally to this work.

CONTEXT.—: Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (PanNETs) are rare malignancies with 
heterogeneous clinical courses requiring novel prognosticators and therapies. B7 
family molecules have an important role in various cancers; however, these have 
not been distinguished in PanNETs.
OBJECTIVE.—: To investigate the expression and clinical significance of 
programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1), programmed death ligand-2 (PD-L2), B7 homolog 
3 (B7-H3), B7 homolog 4 (B7-H4), and V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of 
T-cell activation (VISTA) in 182 PanNETs (with a high proportion of functioning 
versus nonfunctioning PanNETs: 51% versus 49%).
DESIGN.—: Molecules were immunostained by using tissue microarrays from 182 
patients with grade 1/2 PanNETs. VISTA-positive microvessel density (VISTA+ MVD) 
was evaluated in 4 high-power fields (HPFs) (×200) and mean count was 
calculated; immune cells with 1% or greater VISTA staining were considered 
positive. PD-L1 tumoral expression was considered positive in samples with 5% or 
more membranous staining. Tumoral VISTA, stromal PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3, and B7-H4 
expression were deemed positive if any staining was observed.
RESULTS.—: VISTA+ MVD was high (≥10.8/HPF) in 45 patients (25%), while VISTA 
stained positively on immune and tumor cells in 121 (66%) and 0 patients, 
respectively. Positive PD-L1 tumoral and stromal expression was observed in 23 
(13%) and 0 patients, with positive B7-H3 expression in 76 (42%) and 98 (54%) 
patients, respectively, in these cells; PD-L2 and B7-H4 were not detected. PD-L1 
positivity rate was high in functioning PanNETs. Stromal B7-H3 and high VISTA+ 
MVD correlated with unfavorable clinicopathologic features. Moreover, high 
VISTA+ MVD was an independent predictor of shorter progression-free survival.
CONCLUSIONS.—: VISTA may serve as a prognosticator and immunotherapeutic target 
for patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (PanNET).

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2021-0377-OA
PMID: 35671167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial interest 
in the products or companies described in this article.


435. J Inflamm Res. 2022 Jun 9;15:3421-3431. doi: 10.2147/JIR.S361868.
eCollection  2022.

A Potential Role of B7-H4 Expression in Predicting the Recurrence of Chronic 
Rhinosinusitis with Nasal Polyps.

Wang F(1)(2), Chu W(3), Deng Z(2)(4), Jing Q(5), Xie B(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Xiangya Hospital of 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China.
(2)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital 
of Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, 410008, People's Republic of 
China.
(3)Department of Pathology, The People's Hospital of Shimen County, Changde, 
Hunan, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China.
(5)The Affiliated Changsha Central Hospital, Department of Otolaryngology Head 
and Neck Surgery, Hengyang Medical School, University of South China, Changsha, 
Hunan, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Chronic rhinosinusitis with polyps (CRSwNP) is a common chronic 
inflammatory disease of the nasal cavity and sinuses with a high rate of 
postoperative recurrence. In this study, we aim to investigate the expression of 
B7-H4 in CRSwNP and its association with postoperative recurrence.
METHODS: A total of 80 CRSwNP patients, including 40 primary CRSwNP (pCRSwNP) 
patients and 40 recurrent CRSwNP (rCRSwNP) patients, 27 chronic rhinosinusitis 
without polyps (CRSsNP) and 32 healthy controls (HC) were enrolled in this 
study, and the serum, nasal polyps and middle turbinate tissue samples were 
collected. Peripheral and tissue B7-H4 expressions were detected by 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and reverse transcription-polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunofluorescence, and their clinical values in 
predicting postoperative recurrence of CRSwNP were evaluated.
RESULTS: We identified significantly higher tissue B7-H4 mRNA levels in the 
CRSwNP group than in the HC group, and elevated B7-H4 levels were associated 
with tissue eosinophil count and percentage (r = 0.469, P < 0.001; r = 0.521, P 
< 0.001). B7-H4 mRNA and protein levels were significantly higher in the rCRSwNP 
group than the pCRSwP group. Multivariate analysis and receiver operating 
characteristic (ROC) curves showed that tissue B7-H4 levels were associated with 
postoperative recurrence in patients with CRSwNP (P < 0.05). In addition, serum 
B7-H4 levels were significantly increased in the CRSwNP group than the CRS and 
HC groups, especially in the rCRSwNP group (P < 0.05), and the ROC curve 
presented a predictive ability of serum B7-H4 in predicting postoperative 
recurrence.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicated that B7-H4 level was clearly enhanced in 
CRSwNP patients and associated with postoperative recurrence. Serum B7-H4 might 
serve as a simple and convenient biomarker for early predicting postoperative 
recurrence in CRwNP patients.

© 2022 Wang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/JIR.S361868
PMCID: PMC9192352
PMID: 35711239

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


436. Eur J Cancer. 2022 Aug;171:133-142. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2022.05.022. Epub
2022  Jun 16.

B7-H4 correlates with clinical outcome and immunotherapeutic benefit in 
muscle-invasive bladder cancer.

Liu Z(1), Jin K(2), Zeng H(3), Shao F(4), Chang Y(1), Wang Y(5), Xu L(6), Wang 
Z(7), Cui X(8), Zhu Y(9), Xu J(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Urology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Oncology, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(5)Department of Urology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(6)Department of Urology, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(7)Department of Urology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. 
Electronic address: zwwang12@fudan.edu.cn.
(8)Department of Urology, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University School 
of Medicine, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: cuixingang@xinhuamed.com.cn.
(9)Department of Urology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 
China. Electronic address: yuzhu10@fudan.edu.cn.
(10)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
jjxufdu@fudan.edu.cn.

AIM: B7-H4, a sibling to PD-L1 in B7 family, has been reported to be a novel 
immune checkpoint that is prevalent among non-inflamed tumors. Herein, we 
attempt to explore the potential of B7-H4 in survival prediction and therapeutic 
guidance in muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) patients.
METHODS: This study included 391 patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) 
database and 122 patients from Zhongshan (ZS) Hospital. The evaluation of 
response to PD-L1 inhibitors was based on 270 patients in IMvigor210 cohort. 
Kaplan-Meier survival and multivariate analyses were performed to assess 
clinical outcomes in three cohorts. The correlation of B7-H4 expression with 
immune contexture and genomic alterations was analyzed based on 
immunohistochemistry, Microenvironment Cell Populations-counter (MCP-counter) 
tool, and whole-exome sequencing.
RESULTS: MIBC patients with the high level of B7-H4 expression (B7-H4high) were 
found to possess an inferior overall and recurrence-free survival. Nonetheless, 
substantial clinical benefits of cisplatin-based chemotherapy and anti-PD-L1 
immunotherapy were observed in these patients. After identifying a positive 
correlation between B7-H4 and tumor mutation burden (TMB), clinical benefits in 
B7-H4high TMBhigh subgroup were found to be the most upon PD-L1 blockade. 
Further studies revealed that B7-H4high subgroup was featured by non-inflamed 
immune contexture and cell cycle-related gene alterations.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite adverse clinical outcomes, B7-H4high patients possessed 
superior responsiveness to chemotherapy and immunotherapy. B7-H4 stratification 
could also synergize with TMB to pinpoint the patients who benefited most from 
immunotherapy. The clinical exploration of B7-H4 as a companion predictor could 
allow clinicians to direct proper therapeutic agents to patients.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2022.05.022
PMID: 35717821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


437. Neoplasma. 2022 Jul;69(4):940-947. doi: 10.4149/neo_2022_220304N241. Epub
2022  Jun 20.

Silencing of B7-H4 induces intracellular oxidative stress and inhibits cell 
viability of breast cancer cells via downregulating PRDX3.

Chen HC(1), Long M(1), Gao ZW(1), Liu C(1), Wu XN(1), Yang L(1), Dong K(1), 
Zhang HZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Laboratory and Research Center, Tangdu Hospital, The 
Air Force Military Medical University, Xi'an, China.

Breast cancer (BC) is the most common malignancy in women worldwide, accounting 
for 15.5% of total cancer deaths. B7-H4 belongs to the B7 family members and 
plays an important role in the development of a variety of cancers, while 
Peroxiredoxin III (PRDX3) is an antioxidant protein found in mitochondria. 
Aberrant expression of B7-H4 or PRDX3 has been implicated in the tumorigenesis 
of various cancers. However, the functional roles of B7-H4 and PRDX3 in BC and 
the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this research, we found that 
silencing of B7-H4 by siRNA could lead to not only cell viability inhibition but 
also the downregulation of PRDX3 in MCF-7 and T47D cells. In order to reveal the 
roles of PRDX3 in the B7-H4 pathway, we firstly transfected siRNA specifically 
targeting PRDX3 into MCF-7 and T47D cells, and the results showed that silencing 
of PRDX3 also inhibited the viability of MCF-7 and T47D cells significantly, 
accompanied by the increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. Then we 
overexpressed the expression of PRDX3 by transfecting PRDX3 expression plasmids 
into B7-H4 knocking-down cells of MCF-7 and T47D. The results showed that 
compared with the control groups (MCF-7 or T47D/siNC+pcDNA3.1 vector), cell 
viabilities were significantly inhibited in RNAi groups (MCF-7 or 
T47D/siB7-H4+pcDNA3.1 vector), and mildly inhibited in revertant groups (MCF-7 
or T47D/siB7-H4+pcDNA3.1 PRDX3), meanwhile, ROS levels significantly elevated in 
RNAi groups and had no significant changes in revertant groups. All these 
results indicate that silencing of B7-H4 increases intracellular ROS levels and 
affects cell viability by modulating the expression of PRDX3 in BC cells, which 
may provide a potential strategy and therapeutic target for the treatment of BC.

DOI: 10.4149/neo_2022_220304N241
PMID: 35723197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Onco Targets Ther. 2022 Jun 23;15:699-700. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S379382.
eCollection  2022.

The Coexpression and Clinical Significance of Costimulatory Molecules B7-H1, 
B7-H3, and B7-H4 in Human Pancreatic Cancer [Retraction].

[No authors listed]

Retraction of
    Onco Targets Ther. 2014 Aug 19;7:1465-72.

[This retracts the article DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S66809.].

© 2022 Dove Medical Press.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S379382
PMCID: PMC9235822
PMID: 35769125


439. Dig Dis Sci. 2023 Feb;68(2):478-486. doi: 10.1007/s10620-022-07606-5. Epub
2022  Jul 4.

Dysregulated B7H4/JAK2/STAT3 Pathway Involves in Hypertriglyceridemia Acute 
Pancreatitis and Is Attenuated by Baicalin.

Yang J(#)(1), Han F(#)(1), Wu G(#)(2), Dong Y(1), Su H(1), Xu J(2), Li J(3).

Author information:
(1)NHC Key Laboratory of Hormones and Development, Tianjin Key Laboratory of 
Metabolic Diseases, Chu Hsien-I Memorial Hospital & Tianjin Institute of 
Endocrinology, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, 300134, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Tianjin Union Medical Center, Tianjin, 300121, 
China.
(3)NHC Key Laboratory of Hormones and Development, Tianjin Key Laboratory of 
Metabolic Diseases, Chu Hsien-I Memorial Hospital & Tianjin Institute of 
Endocrinology, Tianjin Medical University, Tianjin, 300134, China. 
lijunzhuxianyi@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Patients with hypertriglyceridemia (HTG) are prone to develop more 
severe acute pancreatitis (AP). However, the specific molecular mechanism still 
has not been elaborated clearly, and effective drugs for treating HTG-AP are not 
yet readily available. Baicalin is an ingredient isolated from a natural product 
that with potential to attenuate inflammation and pain in AP.
AIMS: The aim of the present study was to explore the effect of baicalin on 
HTG-AP and the possible mechanism involved.
METHODS: A mouse model of HTG-AP was successfully established by administering 
Poloxamer 407 and L-arginine intraperitoneally. We analyzed pathological 
changes, and performed TUNEL staining, DHE staining, and western blot to detect 
apoptosis, inflammation, oxidative stress, and B7H4/JAK2/STAT3 signaling in the 
pancreas.
RESULTS: Treatment with baicalin decreased serum triglyceride, cholesterol, 
lipase, amylase levels, and attenuated pancreatic edema. After intervention with 
baicalin, apoptosis and inflammation in HTG-AP mice were alleviated, as 
indicated by the decrease of Bax, cleaved-caspase-3, IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β. 
Baicalin also alleviated oxidative stress by decreasing NOX2, increasing SOD2 
protein expression, and regulating Nrf2/Keap1 signaling in HTG-AP mice. 
Furthermore, baicalin decreased the upregulated B7H4/JAK2/STAT3 pathway in 
HTG-AP.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, our data suggested that baicalin could attenuate 
HTG-AP, possibly through regulating B7H4/JAK2/STAT3 signaling.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-022-07606-5
PMID: 35781653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2023 Apr 1;147(4):465-473. doi:
10.5858/arpa.2021-0471-OA.

Prognostic Value of Programmed Death Ligand-1 in Discriminating Patients With 
Lymph Node-Negative, p53-Wild-Type, or Low-BRCA1/2-Expression Pancreatic Ductal 
Adenocarcinoma.

Chen X(1), Zhang Y(1), Mo S, Ma H(1), Lu Z, Yu S(1), Chen J(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
China.

CONTEXT.—: Alterations in the tumor microenvironment affect the response to 
immunotherapy and are associated with clinical outcomes. However, the role of B7 
family checkpoint molecules in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains 
unclear.
OBJECTIVE.—: To investigate the expression of programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1), 
B7 homolog 3 (B7-H3), and B7 homolog 4 (B7-H4) and the association of these 
molecules with pathologic features, DNA damage repair (DDR) molecules, immune 
infiltrates, and survival in PDAC.
DESIGN.—: The expression of B7 family molecules, densities of immune cells, and 
DDR status were evaluated by using immunohistochemical assays in tissue 
microarrays.
RESULTS.—: Positive PD-L1 expression on tumor cells (TCs) and stromal cells 
(SCs) was observed in 30.3% (80 of 264) and 20.5% (54 of 264) of patients, 
respectively, whereas B7-H3 showed positivity in 81.3% (195 of 240) and 87.9% 
(211 of 240) of patients, respectively. B7-H4 was detected exclusively in tumor 
cells, with a positivity rate of 76.0% (193 of 254). PD-L1 on TCs was an 
independent predictor of worse disease-free survival, whereas B7-H3 on TCs was 
an independent factor of improved survival. The prognostic significance of PD-L1 
was more discriminative in lymph node-negative, p53-wild-type, and 
low-BRCA1/2-expression tumors. B7-H3 on SCs was negatively correlated with 
CD45RO T cells, whereas PD-L1 on SCs was related to high densities of CD3, CD4, 
CD8, CD45RO, and Foxp3 T cells and B7-H4 was more common in tumors with a low 
CD8 status.
CONCLUSIONS.—: We identified B7 family checkpoint molecules as potentially 
prognostic indicators, combined with different DDR molecular statuses and 
complex immune infiltrates, in PDAC.

© 2023 College of American Pathologists.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2021-0471-OA
PMID: 35862858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Front Immunol. 2022 Jul 22;13:942154. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.942154. 
eCollection 2022.

Analysis of the OX40/OX40L immunoregulatory axis combined with alternative 
immune checkpoint molecules in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

Chen X(1), Ma H(1), Mo S(1), Zhang Y(1), Lu Z(1), Yu S(1), Chen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

Immune checkpoint modulation has been a vital therapeutic option in many 
malignancies, and targeting of novel immune checkpoints, including OX40/OX40L 
costimulatory signaling, is being assessed in clinical trials. However, little 
is known about the role of OX40 and OX40L in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma 
(PDAC). Thus, we investigated the clinical significance of OX-40 and OX40L and 
their associations with alternative immune checkpoints, immune infiltrates, 
clinicopathological features, and clinical outcomes. We performed multiplexed 
immunofluorescence staining for OX40, OX40L, CD8, and CD68 using tissue 
microarrays from 255 patients. Immunohistochemistry data for PD-L1, B7-H3, 
B7-H4, CD3, and Foxp3 were analyzed. And the RNA sequencing data of OX40/OX40L 
in The Cancer Genome Atlas and International Cancer Genome Consortium databases 
were also evaluated. The positive rates for OX40 on tumor cells (TCs) and immune 
cells (ICs) were 8.6% and 10.2%, respectively, and the positive rates for OX40L 
on TCs, ICs, and macrophages were 20%, 40.4%, and 12.9%, respectively. OX40 was 
associated with favorable clinicopathological features. OX40+ on ICs, OX40L+ on 
TCs, or OX40L+ on macrophages, rather than the total gene and protein levels of 
OX40/OX40L, were associated with improved survival. OX40+ on ICs and OX40L+ on 
macrophages were independent factors of clinical outcomes. Moreover, we could 
more accurately stratify patients through the combination of OX40 on ICs and 
OX40L on TCs, and patients with OX40+ ICs and OX40L+CK+ showed the best outcome. 
And we demonstrated that patients with OX40-ICs and low CD8+ T cells 
infiltration had unfavorable survival. Intriguingly, OX40+ ICs or OX40L+ 
macrophages demonstrated superior survival in patients with PD-L1 negativity 
than in those with PD-L1 positivity. Furthermore, OX40+ ICs were correlated with 
negative B7-H4 on TCs, high densities of CD3 T cells, and high densities of 
Foxp3 T cells; OX40+ TCs and OX40L+ TCs were associated with low densities of 
Foxp3 T cells. We identified OX40 and OX40L as promising predictors for 
prognosis in PDAC.

Copyright © 2022 Chen, Ma, Mo, Zhang, Lu, Yu and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.942154
PMCID: PMC9352865
PMID: 35936015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


442. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2023 Jul;149(7):3383-3393. doi: 
10.1007/s00432-022-04244-2. Epub 2022 Aug 8.

The prognostic impact of B7-H3 and B7-H4 in head and neck squamous cell 
carcinoma.

Borgmann M(1)(2), Oetting A(1)(3), Meyer F(3), Möckelmann N(1)(4), Droste C(5), 
von Bargen CM(6), Möller-Koop C(6), Witt M(6), Borgmann K(3), Rothkamm K(3), 
Betz C(1), Münscher A(1)(4), Clauditz TS(#)(6), Rieckmann T(#)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Asklepios Klinik Nord, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Radiotherapy and Radiation Oncology, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Marienkrankenhaus Hamburg, Hamburg, 
Germany.
(5)University Cancer Center Hamburg (UCCH), University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Institute of Pathology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Germany.
(7)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. t.rieckmann@uke.de.
(8)Department of Radiotherapy and Radiation Oncology, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. t.rieckmann@uke.de.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: Immune checkpoint inhibition is a therapeutic option in many cancer 
entities. In head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) targeting of the 
PD-1/PD-L1 (B7-H1) axis is approved in recurrent/metastatic disease and is being 
explored in the curative setting. Here, we evaluated two related members of the 
B7 family, B7-H3 & B7-H4, for their prognostic impact under standard treatment.
METHODS: A tissue microarray (TMA) of a single center HNSCC cohort was stained 
for B7-H3 and B7-H4. Staining intensity and the number of tumor cells stained 
were assessed, and the expression was scored according to an established 
algorithm. Staining scores were correlated with clinicopathological parameters 
and associated with patient survival. mRNA levels of both proteins were 
associated with patient outcome using the TCGA dataset.
RESULTS: mRNA levels of B7-H3 and B7-H4 were not significantly associated with 
patient survival. TMA analysis revealed interpretable protein staining in 408 
samples. Strong staining was the most frequent category for B7-H3 and no 
staining for B7-H4. In patients with p16-negative oropharyngeal SCC (OPSCC) and 
in a pooled cohort consisting of p16-negative OPSCC, laryngeal, hypopharyngeal 
and oral cavity SCC, strong B7-H3 expression was associated with better overall 
survival. For the latter cohort, this was in part due to reduced lymph node 
involvement. B7-H3 expression in p16-positive OPSCC and B7-H4 expression were 
not associated with outcome.
CONCLUSION: Despite a possible role in tumor immune escape, B7-H3 was associated 
with favorable prognosis in HPV-negative HNSCC in our cohort. The underlying 
mechanisms and a potential impact for B7-H3 targeting remain to be elucidated.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-022-04244-2
PMCID: PMC10314856
PMID: 35941227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


443. Int Immunopharmacol. 2022 Oct;111:109113. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2022.109113.
 Epub 2022 Aug 6.

Inhibition of DNMT1 potentiates antitumor immunity in oral squamous cell 
carcinoma.

Yang SC(1), Wang WY(1), Zhou JJ(1), Wu L(1), Zhang MJ(1), Yang QC(1), Deng 
WW(2), Sun ZJ(3).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, 430079 Wuhan, China.
(2)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, 430079 Wuhan, China; Department of 
Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School & Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan 
University, 430079 Wuhan, China. Electronic address: dww@whu.edu.cn.
(3)The State Key Laboratory Breeding Base of Basic Science of Stomatology 
(Hubei-MOST) & Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedicine Ministry of Education, School 
& Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan University, 430079 Wuhan, China; Department of 
Oral Maxillofacial-Head Neck Oncology, School & Hospital of Stomatology, Wuhan 
University, 430079 Wuhan, China. Electronic address: sunzj@whu.edu.cn.

Epigenetic alterations, including DNA methylation, play crucial roles in the 
tumor. Epigenetic drugs like DNA methyltransferase-1 (DNMT1) inhibitors have 
been exhibited positive effects in cancer treatment. However, the role of DNMT1 
in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is less clearly described. What is more, 
the effects on the immune microenvironment of DNMT1 have not become appreciated. 
In this research, we determine the expression levels of DNMT1 and the 
association of prognosis by analyzing human OSCC tissue microarrays. Two 
different types of ﻿immunocompetent mouse OSCC models were established to 
explore the effects of DNMT1 inhibitor on the tumor microenvironment(TME). We 
identified DNMT1 was highly expressed both in human and mouse OSCC tissues. The 
expression levels of DNMT1 was also correlated with the immunosuppressive 
molecules and tumor-promoter such as VISTA, PD-L1, B7-H4, and PAK2, indicating a 
worse prognosis. Of particular concern is that DNMT1 inhibition improved TME and 
delayed tumor growth by decreasing myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) and 
increasing tumor-infiltrating T cells. Our data suggests that DNMT1 play a key 
role in OSCC and has a possible immunotherapeutic marker treatment.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2022.109113
PMID: 35944462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


444. Ann Transl Med. 2022 Jul;10(14):805. doi: 10.21037/atm-22-3423.

Strengthening of antitumor effects in breast cancer from a novel B7-H4- and 
CD3-targeting bispecific antibody by an oncolytic virus.

Tang J(1)(2), Ma X(3), Chen X(3), Feng M(3), Jin X(4), Wang K(3), Wan J(3), Zhu 
X(2), Xie R(2), Dong S(5), Hu S(5), Jiang H(2), Xie C(1).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Key Laboratory of Tumor Biological Behaviors, Department of Radiation 
and Medical Oncology, Zhongnan Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Department of Lymphoma, Hubei Cancer Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, 
Wuhan, China.
(4)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Hubei Cancer Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(5)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Hubei Cancer Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.

BACKGROUND: For programmed cell death protein 1/programmed death-ligand 1 
(PD-L1)-positive triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), the addition of immune 
checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) to chemotherapy has been shown to increase the 
objective response rate (ORR) by only 13.4-16.3%. Thus, examining converting 
tumor immunogenicity and targeting novel pathways may be needed to improve 
response to immunotherapy. B7-H4 is an emerging target for breast cancer 
immunotherapy. However, the antitumor effect of B7-H4 is unstable during cell 
generation and further research is necessary to strengthen the antitumor 
efficacy of B7-H4.
METHODS: To explore the potential of B7-H4-targeted immunotherapy of breast 
cancer, current study generated four monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against B7-H4 
through immunization of mice followed by phage display technology. T 
cell-engaged bispecific antibodies and immunotoxins were created based on these 
mAbs. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity of B7-H4-targeting bispecific antibody 
and immunotoxin, the anti-tumor efficacy test in vitro and in mice models in 
vivo were performed. Moreover, to boost the efficacy, oncolytic virus herpes 
simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) was combined with the bispecific antibody and 
tested in mice models.
RESULTS: Rigorous in vitro cytotoxicity assay showed that both B7-H4 bispecific 
antibodies and immunotoxins were toxic to B7-H4 positive cells, with the former 
being more potent. However, in vivo studies showed that immunotoxin was slightly 
more effective in suppressing tumor growth. Further, bispecific antibody 
combined with oncolytic virus HSV-2 revealed a synergistic effect in suppressing 
tumor growth without causing obvious adverse effects.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our findings uncover a novel strategy of combining 
oncolytic virus HSV-2 with bispecific antibody reinforce antitumor immune 
response, which warranted further translational investigation.

2022 Annals of Translational Medicine. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/atm-22-3423
PMCID: PMC9372655
PMID: 35965796

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://atm.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/atm-22-3423/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


445. Redox Biol. 2022 Oct;56:102454. doi: 10.1016/j.redox.2022.102454. Epub 2022
Aug  27.

Exosomal B7-H4 from irradiated glioblastoma cells contributes to increase FoxP3 
expression of differentiating Th1 cells and promotes tumor growth.

Tian Y(1), Liu C(1), Li Z(2), Ai M(1), Wang B(1), Du K(1), Liu W(1), Wang H(1), 
Yu P(1), Chen C(1), Lin J(1), Xu A(1), Li R(1), Zhang W(3), Yuan Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of 
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, People's Republic 
of China; State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Affiliated Cancer 
Hospital & Institute of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of 
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, People's Republic 
of China; State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Affiliated Cancer 
Hospital & Institute of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, People's 
Republic of China. Electronic address: 680335195@qq.com.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of 
Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong Province, People's Republic 
of China; State Key Laboratory of Respiratory Disease, Affiliated Cancer 
Hospital & Institute of Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, People's 
Republic of China. Electronic address: yuanyawei@gzhmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive form of primary 
brain tumor. Although numerous postoperative therapeutic strategies have already 
been developed, including radiotherapy, tumors inevitably recur after several 
years of treatment. The coinhibitory molecule B7-H4 negatively regulates T cell 
immune responses and promotes immune escape. Exosomes mediate intercellular 
communication and initiate immune evasion in the tumor microenvironment (TME).
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to determine whether B7-H4 is upregulated by 
radiation and loaded into exosomes, thus contributing to immunosuppression and 
enhancing tumor growth.
METHODS: Iodixanol density-gradient centrifugation and flow cytometry were used 
to verify exosomal B7-H4. Naïve T cells were differentiated into Th1 cells, with 
or without exosomes. T cell-secreted cytokines and markers of T cell subsets 
were measured. Mechanistically, the roles of B7-H4, and ALIX in GBM were 
analyzed using databases and tissue samples. Co-immunoprecipitation, and 
pull-down assays were used to tested the direct interactions between ATM and 
ALIX or STAT3. In vitro ATM kinase assays, western blotting, and site-directed 
mutation were used to assess ATM-mediated STAT3 phosphorylation. Finally, the 
contribution of exosomal B7-H4 to immunosuppression and tumor growth was 
investigated in vivo.
RESULTS: Exosomes from irradiated GBM cells decreased the anti-tumor immune 
response of T cell in vitro and in vivo via delivered B7-H4. Mechanistically, 
irradiation promoted exosome biogenesis by increasing the ATM-ALIX interaction. 
Furthermore, the ATM-phosphorylated STAT3 was found to directly binds to the 
B7-H4 promoter to increase its expression. Finally, the radiation-induced 
increase in exosomal B7-H4 induced FoxP3 expression during Th1 cell 
differentiation via the activated STAT1 pathway. In vivo, exosomal B7-H4 
decreased the radiation sensitivity of GBM cells, and reduced the survival of 
GBM mice model.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that radiation-enhanced exosomal B7-H4 promoted 
immunosuppression and tumor growth, hence defining a direct link between 
irradiation and anti-tumor immune responses. Our results suggest that 
co-administration of radiotherapy with anti-B7-H4 therapy could improve local 
tumor control and identify exosomal B7-H4 as a potential tumor biomarker.

Copyright © 2022 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.redox.2022.102454
PMCID: PMC9440073
PMID: 36044789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest None of the 
authors have conflicts of interest relevant to this article.


446. Immunobiology. 2022 Nov;227(6):152274. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2022.152274.
Epub  2022 Sep 6.

V-set domain containing T-cell activation inhibitor-1 (VTCN1): A potential 
target for the treatment of autoimmune diseases.

Vaishnav J(1), Khan F(1), Yadav M(1), Parmar N(1), Buch H(1), Jadeja SD(1), 
Dwivedi M(2), Begum R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, The Maharaja Sayajirao 
University of Baroda, Vadodara 390002, Gujarat, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, The Maharaja Sayajirao 
University of Baroda, Vadodara 390002, Gujarat, India; C. G. Bhakta Institute of 
Biotechnology, Uka Tarsadia University, Tarsadi, Surat 394350, Gujarat, India.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, The Maharaja Sayajirao 
University of Baroda, Vadodara 390002, Gujarat, India. Electronic address: 
rasheedunnisab@yahoo.co.in.

Autoimmunity eventuates when the immune system attacks self-molecules as a 
result of the breakdown in immune tolerance. Targeting autoimmune diseases via 
immunomodulation has become an essential strategy in today's era. A B7 
superfamily member immune checkpoint, the V-set domain containing T-cell 
activation inhibitor-1 (VTCN1), also known as B7-H4, B7S1, and B7x, is involved 
in negatively regulating T-cell activation. VTCN1 transcript has been reported 
in various lymphoid and non-lymphoid tissues, but its protein expression is 
restricted, indicating its translational regulation. Dysregulation of VTCN1 has 
resulted in the exacerbation of various autoimmune diseases. Moreover, increased 
soluble form of VTCN1 in the patient's sera positively correlates with the 
disease progression and severity. The current review summarizes all the reports 
till date, unfolding the role of VTCN1 in various autoimmune diseases and its 
therapeutic potential.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2022.152274
PMID: 36095871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


447. Viral Immunol. 2022 Nov;35(9):597-608. doi: 10.1089/vim.2022.0029. Epub 2022
Sep  13.

Hepatitis B Virus Infection Promotes M2 Polarization of Macrophages by 
Upregulating the Expression of B7x In Vivo and In Vitro.

Xiang X(1), Wu Y(2), Lv XQ(1), Xu RQ(1), Liu Y(1), Pan SH(3), He M(1), Lai 
GQ(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory Animal Center, Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology and Epigenetics, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(3)The First Clinical College of Chongqing Medical University, Chongqing, China.

Several studies have reported that hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is mediated 
by macrophages and that the B7x (B7-H4, VTCN-1) protein plays an important role 
in immune regulation in HBV-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HBV-HCC). 
However, the relationship among HBV, macrophages, and B7x has not been studied. 
In this study, HBV-infected mouse model and coculture of HBV cell lines and 
macrophages were used to observe the changes in macrophages and the role of B7x 
after HBV infection. The expression of HBV markers (HBeAg, HBsAg), negative 
regulator of immunity (B7x), T-helper 17 (Th17)/T-regulatory (Treg)-related 
cytokines, and macrophage markers, as well as changes in the apoptosis and cell 
cycle of macrophages were analyzed through reverse transcription quantitative 
polymerase chain reaction, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, western blot, and 
flow cytometry. The expression of HBsAg, HBeAg, and B7x increased and the levels 
of macrophage surface marker and Treg cells secrete related cytokines (IL-10 and 
TGF-β) were altered after HBV infection both in vivo and in vitro. Apoptosis of 
macrophages increased, and cell cycle arrest occurred in vitro. These effects, 
except those in the cell cycle, were reversed when B7x was knocked down. Thus, 
HBV infection can promote the expression of B7x, which in turn regulates the 
Th17/Treg balance and affects the expression of HBsAg and HBeAg. The mechanism 
used by B7x likely involves the promotion of macrophage polarization and 
apoptosis. These results suggest that B7x is a novel target for HBV 
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1089/vim.2022.0029
PMID: 36099202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Am J Reprod Immunol. 2022 Dec;88(6):e13626. doi: 10.1111/aji.13626. Epub
2022  Sep 28.

The immunological role of B7-H4 in pregnant women with Sars-Cov2 infection.

Duan L(1), Reisch B(1), Mach P(1), Kimmig R(1), Gellhaus A(1), Iannaccone A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, 
Germany.

PROBLEM: T-cells are key players in fighting the coronavirus disease 2019 
(COVID-19). The checkpoint molecule B7-H4, a member of the B7 family, can 
inhibit T-cell activation and proliferation by inhibiting NF-kb expression. We 
aimed to elucidate the immunological role of soluble B7-H4 (sB7-H4) and B7-H4 in 
pregnant women suffered from an acute Sars-Cov2 infection.
METHODS: Expression levels of sB7-H4 and cytokines were detected by enzyme 
linked immunosorbent assay. B7-H4 and cytokines mRNA expression was analyzed by 
qPCR, and B7-H4 and NF-κb (p65) protein levels were investigated by western blot 
and immunofluorescence staining in placenta chorionic villous and decidual 
basalis tissues of COVID-19 affected women and healthy controls.
RESULTS: Fibrinoid necrosis in the periphery of placental villi was increased in 
the COVID-19-affected patients. sB7-H4 protein in maternal and cord blood serum 
and IL-6/IL-10 were increased while leukocytes were decreased during SARS-CoV-2 
infection. Serum sB7-H4 level was increased according to the severity of 
SARS-Cov-2 infection. Cytokines (IL-6, IL-18, IL-1β, TNF-α), B7-H4 mRNA and 
protein in the decidual basalis tissues of COVID-19-infected pregnant women were 
significantly increased compared to healthy controls. IL-18 and IL-1β were 
significantly increased in the placenta chorionic villous samples of COVID-19 
affected patients, while NF-κb (p65) expression was decreased.
CONCLUSIONS: The expression of the immunological marker sB7-H4 correlated with 
the severity of COVID-19 disease in pregnant women. sB7-H4 and B7-H4 can be used 
to monitor the progression of COVID-19 infection during pregnancy, and for 
evaluating of the maternal immune status.

© 2022 The Authors. American Journal of Reproductive Immunology published by 
John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aji.13626
PMCID: PMC9538547
PMID: 36121927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare that the research had no commercial 
or financial relationships that could be constructed as a potential conflict of 
interest.


449. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2022 Sep 24;13(1):484. doi: 10.1186/s13287-022-03174-7.

Mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosome-educated macrophages alleviate systemic 
lupus erythematosus by promoting efferocytosis and recruitment of IL-17(+) 
regulatory T cell.

Zhang M(#)(1)(2), Johnson-Stephenson TK(#)(3)(4), Wang W(1), Wang Y(4)(5), Li 
J(1), Li L(6), Zen K(1)(6), Chen X(7), Zhu D(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, Nanjing University 
School of Life Sciences, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(2)National Clinical Research Center of Kidney Diseases, Jinling Hospital, 
Nanjing University School of Medicine, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(3)PRIME Education, Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA.
(4)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(5)Department of Physiology, Shihezi University Medical College, Shihezi, 
Xinjiang, China.
(6)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, School of Life Science and 
Technology, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, Jiangsu Engineering 
Research Center for MicroRNA Biology and Biotechnology, Nanjing University 
School of Life Sciences, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. xichen@nju.edu.cn.
(8)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines, School of Life Science and 
Technology, China Pharmaceutical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China. 
dzhu@cpu.edu.cn.
(9)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Morehouse School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA. dzhu@cpu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Anti-inflammatory polarized macrophages are reported to alleviate 
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Our previous studies have demonstrated that 
exosomes from adipose-derived stem cells promote the anti-inflammatory 
polarization of macrophages. However, the possible therapeutic effect of 
exosomes from stem cells on SLE remains unexplored.
METHODS: Exosomes were isolated from the conditioned medium of bone 
marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells using ultrafiltration and size-exclusion 
chromatography and were identified by nanoparticle tracking analysis and 
immunoblotting of exosomal-specific markers. Macrophages were collected from the 
MRL/lpr mouse kidney. The phenotype of macrophages was identified by 
immunoblotting for intracellular markers-inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) 
and arginase-1 (Arg-1), and flow cytometry for macrophage markers F4/80, CD86, 
CD206, B7H4, and CD138. Pristane-induced murine lupus nephritis models were 
employed for in vivo study.
RESULTS: When macrophages from the kidney of the MRL/lpr mice were treated with 
exosomes from bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BM-MSCs), the 
upregulation of CD206, B7H4, CD138, Arg-1, CCL20, and anti-inflammatory 
cytokines was observed, which suggested that the macrophages were polarized to a 
specific anti-inflammatory phenotype. These anti-inflammatory macrophages 
produced low levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) but had a high 
efferocytosis activity and promoted regulatory T (Treg) cell recruitment. 
Moreover, exosome injection stimulated the anti-inflammatory polarization of 
macrophages and increased the production of IL-17+ Treg cells in a 
pristane-induced murine lupus nephritis model. We observed that exosomes from 
BMMSCs depleted of microRNA-16 (miR-16) and microRNA-21 (miR-21) failed to 
downregulate PDCD4 and PTEN in macrophages, respectively, and attenuated 
exosome-induced anti-inflammatory polarization.
CONCLUSION: Our findings provide evidence that exosomes from BMMSCs promote the 
anti-inflammatory polarization of macrophages. These macrophages alleviate SLE 
nephritis in lupus mice by consuming apoptotic debris and inducing the 
recruitment of Treg cells. We identify that exosomal delivery of miR-16 and 
miR-21 is a significant contributor to the polarization of macrophages.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13287-022-03174-7
PMCID: PMC9509559
PMID: 36153633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors indicate no potential conflicts of 
interest.


450. Front Immunol. 2022 Sep 8;13:984172. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.984172.
eCollection  2022.

Novel immune scoring dynamic nomograms based on B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2: 
Potential prediction in survival and immunotherapeutic efficacy for gallbladder 
cancer.

Lv C(1), Han S(1), Wu B(1), Liang Z(1), Li Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Lang Q(1), Zhong 
C(1), Fu L(1), Yu Y(2), Xu F(1), Tian Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Shengjing Hospital of China Medical 
University, Liaoning, China.
(2)Department of Surgery, Jinzhou Medical University, Liaoning, China.

BACKGROUND: Gallbladder cancer (GBC) is a mortal malignancy with limited 
therapeutic strategies. We aimed to develop novel immune scoring systems 
focusing on B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2. We further investigated their potential 
clinical effects in predicting survival and immunotherapeutic efficacy for GBC.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study in a single center that explored 
the expression characteristics of B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2. The immune scoring 
nomograms for prognostic were developed via logistic regression analyses. Their 
performance was evaluated using the Harrell concordance index (C-index) and 
decision curves analysis (DCA), and validated with calibration curves.
RESULTS: B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2 manifested with a relatively high rate of 
co-expression patterns in GBC tissues. They were associated with worse 
clinicopathological stage, suppression of immune microenvironment, and 
unfavorable prognosis in postoperative survival. B7 stratification established 
based on B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2 was an independent prognostic predictor (p<0.05 
in both groups). Moreover, immune stratification was also successfully 
constructed based on B7 stratification and the density of CD8+ TILs (all 
p<0.001). The prediction models were developed based on B7-/or immune 
stratification combined with the TNM/or Nevin staging system. These novel models 
have excellent discrimination ability in predicting survival and 
immunotherapeutic efficacy for GBC patients by DCA and clinical impact plots. 
Finally, dynamic nomograms were developed for the most promising clinical 
prediction models (B7-TNM model and Immune-TNM model) to facilitate prediction.
CONCLUSIONS: Immune scoring systems focusing on B7-H3, B7-H4, and HHLA2 may 
effectively stratify the prognosis of GBC. Prognostic nomograms based on novel 
immune scoring systems may potentially predict survival and immunotherapeutic 
efficacy in GBC. Further valid verification is necessary.

Copyright © 2022 Lv, Han, Wu, Liang, Li, Zhang, Lang, Zhong, Fu, Yu, Xu and 
Tian.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.984172
PMCID: PMC9493478
PMID: 36159808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


451. MAbs. 2022 Jan-Dec;14(1):2115213. doi: 10.1080/19420862.2022.2115213.

Development of T-cell engagers selective for cells co-expressing two antigens.

Dicara DM(1), Bhakta S(1), Go MA(1), Ziai J(1), Firestein R(1), Forrest B(1), Gu 
C(1), Leong SR(1), Lee G(1), Yu SF(1), Polson AG(1), Agard NJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Genentech Research and Early Development, South San Francisco, California, 
USA.

T cell-engaging bispecific antibodies (TCEs) are clinically effective treatments 
for hematological cancers. While the utility of TCEs in solid malignancies is 
being explored, toxicities arising from antigen expression on normal tissues 
have slowed or halted several clinical trials. Here, we describe the development 
of TCEs that preferentially drive T cell-mediated death against target cells 
co-expressing two tumor-associated antigens. We show that Ly6E and B7-H4 are 
simultaneously expressed on approximately 50% of breast cancers, whereas normal 
tissue expression is limited and mostly orthogonal. Traditional bispecific TCEs 
targeting a singular antigen, either Ly6E or B7-H4, are active when paired with 
high-affinity CD3-engagers, but normal tissue expression presents a toxicity 
risk. Treatment with a murine cross-reactive B7-H4-TCE results in rapid and 
severe weight loss in mice along with damage to B7-H4-expressing tissues. To 
overcome on-target toxicity, we designed trispecific antibodies co-targeting 
Ly6E, B7-H4, and CD3 and characterized the impact of dual-antigen binding and 
the relative placement of each binding domain on tumor killing in vitro and in 
vivo. In vitro killing of tumor cells co-expressing both antigens correlates to 
the placement of the higher affinity B7-H4 binding domain, with only modest 
enhancements seen upon addition of Ly6E binding. In xenograft models, avid 
binding of appropriately designed trispecific TCEs enables tumor growth 
inhibition while evading the poor tolerability seen with active bispecific TCEs. 
Collectively these data highlight the potential for dual-antigen targeting to 
improve safety and efficacy, and expand the scope of tumors that may effectively 
be treated by TCEs.Abbreviations: Chimeric antigen receptor T cells (CAR-Ts), 
dual-antigen targeted T cell engagers (DAT-TCE), Fragment antigen-binding (Fab), 
Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee 
(IACUC), Immunoglobulin G (IgG), immunohistochemistry (IHC), NOD SCID gamma 
(NSG), peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), surface plasmon resonance 
(SPR), T cell-engagers (TCEs).

DOI: 10.1080/19420862.2022.2115213
PMCID: PMC9553182
PMID: 36206404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors are former or current employees of 
Genentech Inc., a member of the Roche group and may have financial interests 
including salary, equity, and/or existing patent applications.


452. BMC Cancer. 2022 Oct 10;22(1):1053. doi: 10.1186/s12885-022-10159-5.

B7-H4 is a potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarker in colorectal cancer 
and correlates with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition.

Yan X(1), Hong B(2), Feng J(3), Jin Y(4), Chen M(5), Li F(6), Qian Y(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Stomatology Hospital, School of 
Stomatology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang Provincial 
Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedical 
Research of Zhejiang Province, Cancer Center of Zhejiang University, 166 North 
Qiutao Road, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, 310006, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 310009, Zhejiang Province, China.
(3)Department of Blood Transfusion, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 310009, Zhejiang Province, China.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory, The Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, 310009, Zhejiang Province, China.
(5)School of Medical Technology and Information Engineering, Zhejiang Chinese 
Medical University, Hangzhou, 310053, Zhejiang Province, China.
(6)Shanghai Upper Bio Tech Pharma Company Limited, Shanghai, 201201, China.
(7)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Stomatology Hospital, School of 
Stomatology, Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Zhejiang Provincial 
Clinical Research Center for Oral Diseases, Key Laboratory of Oral Biomedical 
Research of Zhejiang Province, Cancer Center of Zhejiang University, 166 North 
Qiutao Road, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, 310006, China. qianyun1985@zju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: As a negative co-stimulatory molecule of the B7 family, B7-H4 has 
recently attracted increased attention. However, the clinical value of B7-H4 in 
colorectal cancer (CRC) remains controversial and requires further 
investigation. This study aimed to investigate the role of B7-H4 in the clinical 
diagnosis and survival prognosis of CRC.
METHODS: The relationships between B7-H4 expression, immune cell infiltration, 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), clinicopathological features, and 
survival prognosis were determined through the TCGA database and verified in a 
large CRC cohort (n = 1118).
RESULTS: The results showed the level of B7-H4 mRNA expression was significantly 
increased in the CRC tumor tissues compared with normal tissues (P <  0.001). 
Immunohistochemistry showed that B7-H4 protein expression was also up-regulated 
in CRC. The positive rate of B7-H4 in CRC tumor tissues was 76.38%, which was 
significantly higher than that in non-tumor tissues (P <  0.001). Overexpression 
of B7-H4 was positively correlated with lymph node metastasis, advanced TNM 
stage, and poor tumor differentiation (P = 0.012; 0.009; 0.014). Prognostic 
analysis showed high B7-H4 expression was associated with significantly shorter 
OS. Multivariate analysis demonstrated the risk of death in CRC patients with 
high B7-H4 expression is 1.487 times that of low B7-H4 expression. In addition, 
B7-H4 expression was negatively correlated with the epithelial marker E-cadherin 
(P <  0.001) and positively correlated with the mesenchymal marker vimentin 
(P <  0.001) in CRC tissues. However, B7-H4 expression was not associated with 
the immunosuppressive microenvironment in CRC.
CONCLUSION: B7-H4 may represent a potential biomarker for the diagnosis and 
prognosis of CRC and enhance CRC invasion by promoting EMT.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-022-10159-5
PMCID: PMC9549643
PMID: 36217128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


453. Front Immunol. 2022 Oct 17;13:1027459. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1027459. 
eCollection 2022.

Intratumoral neutrophil extracellular traps are associated with unfavorable 
clinical outcomes and immunogenic context in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

Chen X(1), Ma H(1), Mo S(1), Yu S(1), Lu Z(1), Chen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

Extracellular traps (ETs) and tumor-infiltrating immune cells play crucial roles 
in tumor progression. However, little is known about the clinical significance 
of tumor-infiltrating neutrophils and macrophages and the related ETs in 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). This study investigates the 
associations between neutrophil or macrophage infiltration or ET formation and 
the clinicopathological features, molecular characteristics, immune checkpoint 
molecules, clinical outcomes, and response to adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) in 
PDAC. We performed multiplex immunofluorescence staining to detect ET formation 
by neutrophils or macrophages using tissue microarrays obtained from 205 
patients, and analyzed the immunohistochemistry data for PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3, 
and B7-H4. The ET expression rates in macrophages and neutrophils were 23.9% and 
45.4%, respectively. Patients with a high density of neutrophils or positive 
expression of neutrophil ETs exhibited poorer progression-free survival (PFS) 
and disease-specific survival (DSS), whereas macrophage ETs were not related to 
PFS and DSS. Neutrophil infiltration and ET formation were identified as 
independent prognostic predictors of DSS using univariate and multivariate Cox 
analyses. Patients with PDAC with lower neutrophil infiltration or negative 
staining for neutrophil ETs are more likely to benefit from ACT. Patients with 
PDAC were more accurately stratified based on the infiltration of neutrophils 
and presence of neutrophil ETs, and patients with low neutrophil infiltration 
and negative staining for neutrophil ETs showed the best survival. Patients with 
positive neutrophil ETs demonstrated inferior DSS compared to those with 
negative neutrophil ETs in the PD-L1 tumor proportion score (TPS) < 1% and PD-L1 
IC < 1% subgroups. However, the positive expression of neutrophil ETs was not 
related to DSS in the PD-L1 TPS ≥ 1% or PD-L1 IC ≥ 1% subgroup. Our findings 
emphasize the potential of neutrophil infiltration and ETs as prognostic markers 
that could guide the formulation of more effective personalized treatments for 
PDAC.

Copyright © 2022 Chen, Ma, Mo, Yu, Lu and Chen.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1027459
PMCID: PMC9618733
PMID: 36325339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


454. Clin Cancer Res. 2023 Mar 14;29(6):1086-1101. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-22-2630.

Design and Preclinical Evaluation of a Novel B7-H4-Directed Antibody-Drug 
Conjugate, AZD8205, Alone and in Combination with the PARP1-Selective Inhibitor 
AZD5305.

Kinneer K(1), Wortmann P(2), Cooper ZA(1), Dickinson NJ(3), Masterson L(3), 
Cailleau T(3), Hutchinson I(3), Vijayakrishnan B(3), McFarlane M(4), Ball K(4), 
Davies M(5), Lewis A(4), Huang Y(6), Rosenbaum AI(6), Yuan J(6), Chesebrough 
J(1), Anderton J(5), Monks N(1), Novick S(7), Wang J(1), Dimasi N(1), Christie 
RJ(1), Sabol D(1), Tosto FA(1), Wallez Y(5), Leo E(5), Albertella MR(5), 
Staniszewska AD(5), Tice DA(1), Howard PW(3), Luheshi N(5), Sapra P(1).

Author information:
(1)Oncology R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, Maryland.
(2)Oncology R&D, AstraZeneca, Munich, Germany.
(3)Oncology R&D, AstraZeneca, London, United Kingdom.
(4)BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(5)Oncology R&D, AstraZeneca, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(6)BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, South San Francisco, California.
(7)BioPharmaceuticals R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, Maryland.

Comment in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2023 Mar 14;29(6):991-993.

Comment on
    Clin Cancer Res. 2023 Mar 14;29(6):991-993.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the activity of AZD8205, a B7-H4-directed antibody-drug 
conjugate (ADC) bearing a novel topoisomerase I inhibitor (TOP1i) payload, alone 
and in combination with the PARP1-selective inhibitor AZD5305, in preclinical 
models.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: IHC and deep-learning-based image analysis algorithms were 
used to assess prevalence and intratumoral heterogeneity of B7-H4 expression in 
human tumors. Several TOP1i-ADCs, prepared with Val-Ala or Gly-Gly-Phe-Gly 
peptide linkers, with or without a PEG8 spacer, were compared in biophysical, in 
vivo efficacy, and rat toxicology studies. AZD8205 mechanism of action and 
efficacy studies were conducted in human cancer cell line and patient-derived 
xenograft (PDX) models.
RESULTS: Evaluation of IHC-staining density on a per-cell basis revealed a range 
of heterogeneous B7-H4 expression across patient tumors. This informed selection 
of bystander-capable Val-Ala-PEG8-TOP1i payload AZ14170133 and development of 
AZD8205, which demonstrated improved stability, efficacy, and safety compared 
with other linker-payload ADCs. In a study of 26 PDX tumors, single 
administration of 3.5 mg/kg AZD8205 provided a 69% overall response rate, 
according to modified RECIST criteria, which correlated with homologous 
recombination repair (HRR) deficiency (HRD) and elevated levels of B7-H4 in 
HRR-proficient models. Addition of AZD5305 sensitized very low B7-H4-expressing 
tumors to AZD8205 treatment, independent of HRD status and in models 
representing clinically relevant mechanisms of PARPi resistance.
CONCLUSIONS: These data provide evidence for the potential utility of AZD8205 
for treatment of B7-H4-expressing tumors and support the rationale for an 
ongoing phase 1 clinical study (NCT05123482). See related commentary by Pommier 
and Thomas, p. 991.

©2022 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-22-2630
PMID: 36355054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. J Clin Med. 2022 Oct 22;11(21):6235. doi: 10.3390/jcm11216235.

B7-H4 Polymorphism Influences the Prevalence of Diabetes Mellitus and 
Pro-Atherogenic Dyslipidemia in Patients with Psoriasis.

Yang W(1), Huang Q(1), Han L(1), Wang B(1), Yawalkar N(2), Zhang Z(1), Yan K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 
200040, China.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University 
of Bern, 3010 Bern, Switzerland.

Background: The co-inhibitory molecule B7-H4 is located in the genomic regions 
associated with type 1 diabetes (T1D) susceptibility. However, the correlation 
of B7-H4 with glycometabolism and dyslipidemia has never been studied. 
Objective: To explore the influence of B7-H4 polymorphism on the prevalence of 
diabetes mellitus (DM) and dyslipidemia in psoriasis. Methods: In this 
single-center cross-sectional study, we recruited 265 psoriatic patients 
receiving methotrexate (MTX) treatment. Thirteen single-nucleotide polymorphisms 
(SNPs) in B7-H4 were genotyped. Serum levels of total cholesterol (TC), 
triglycerides (TG), lipoprotein (a) (LP(a)), high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (HDL-C), low-density lipoprotein (LDL), apolipoprotein A1 (ApoA1), 
and apolipoprotein B (ApoB) were measured at baseline and week 12. Results: The 
GG genotype carriers of rs12025144 in B7-H4 had a higher prevalence of DM 
(57.14% vs. 17.71% vs. 18.67%, p = 0.0018), and had a poorer response to MTX in 
diabetic patients (p < 0.05), compared with AA or AG genotype carriers. The AG 
genotype of rs2066398 was associated with higher levels of pro-atherogenic 
lipids. MTX significantly downregulated the level of anti-atherogenic lipid 
ApoA1 in AA genotype carriers of rs2066398. Conclusions: The genotypes 
rs12025144 and rs2066398 in B7-H4 were correlated with a higher prevalence of DM 
and dyslipidemia in psoriasis, respectively.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11216235
PMCID: PMC9656109
PMID: 36362461

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
declare.


456. Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Nov 30;23(23):15005. doi: 10.3390/ijms232315005.

B7 Family Members in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma: Attractive Targets for 
Cancer Immunotherapy.

Chen X(1)(2), Li J(1), Chen Y(1), Que Z(1), Du J(2), Zhang J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, Southeast 
University, Nanjing 210009, China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Molecular Imaging and Function Imaging, Medical 
School, Southeast University, Nanjing 210009, China.

Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the deadliest cancers, with a 
five-year survival rate of approximately 5-10%. The immune checkpoint blockade 
represented by PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors has been effective in a variety of solid 
tumors but has had little clinical response in pancreatic cancer patients. The 
unique suppressive immune microenvironment is the primary reason for this 
outcome, and it is essential to identify key targets to remodel the immune 
microenvironment. Some B7 family immune checkpoints, particularly PD-L1, PD-L2, 
B7-H3, B7-H4, VISTA and HHLA2, have been identified as playing a significant 
role in the control of tumor immune responses. This paper provides a 
comprehensive overview of the recent research progress of some members of the B7 
family in pancreatic cancer, which revealed that they can be involved in tumor 
progression through immune-dependent and non-immune-dependent pathways, 
highlighting the mechanisms of their involvement in tumor immune escape and 
assessing the prospects of their clinical application. Targeting B7 family 
immune checkpoints is expected to result in novel immunotherapeutic treatments 
for patients with pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms232315005
PMCID: PMC9740860
PMID: 36499340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


457. Parasit Vectors. 2022 Dec 13;15(1):464. doi: 10.1186/s13071-022-05560-9.

Effect of B7-H4 downregulation induced by Toxoplasma gondii infection on 
dysfunction of decidual macrophages contributes to adverse pregnancy outcomes.

Cui L(#)(1), Wang Y(#)(1), Ren L(#)(2), Li Z(1), Jiang Y(1), Wang C(1), Liu 
X(1), Ren Y(1), Hu X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 264003, 
Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics and Cell Biology, Binzhou Medical University, 
Yantai, 264003, Shandong, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Immunology, Binzhou Medical University, Yantai, 264003, 
Shandong, People's Republic of China. xue-mei-hu@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Toxoplasma gondii infection during pregnancy can lead to fetal 
defect(s) or congenital complications. The inhibitory molecule B7-H4 expressed 
on decidual macrophages (dMφ) plays an important role in maternal-fetal 
tolerance. However, the effect of B7-H4 on the function of dMφ during T. gondii 
infection remains unclear.
METHODS: Changes in B7-H4 expression on dMφ after T. gondii infection were 
explored both in vivo and in vitro. B7-H4-/- pregnant mice (pregnant mice with 
B7-H4 gene knockout) and purified primary human dMφ treated with B7-H4 
neutralizing antibody were used to explore the role of B7-H4 signaling on 
regulating the membrane molecules, synthesis of arginine metabolic enzymes and 
cytokine production by dMφ with T. gondii infection. Also, adoptive transfer of 
dMφ from wild-type (WT) pregnant mice or B7-H4-/- pregnant mice to infected 
B7-H4-/- pregnant mice was used to examine the effect of B7-H4 on adverse 
pregnancy outcomes induced by T. gondii infection.
RESULTS: The results illustrated that B7-H4-/- pregnant mice infected by T. 
gondii had poorer pregnancy outcomes than their wild-type counterparts. The 
expression of B7-H4 on dMφ significantly decreased after T. gondii infection, 
which resulted in the polarization of dMφ from the M2 toward the M1 phenotype by 
changing the expression of membrane molecules (CD80, CD86, CD163, CD206), 
synthesis of arginine metabolic enzymes (Arg-1, iNOS) and production of 
cytokines (IL-10, TNF-α) production. Also, we found that the B7-H4 
downregulation after T. gondii infection increased iNOS and TNF-α expression 
mediated through the JAK2/STAT1 signaling pathway. In addition, adoptive 
transfer of dMφ from a WT pregnant mouse donor rather than from a B7-H4-/- 
pregnant mouse donor was able to improve adverse pregnancy outcomes induced by 
T. gondii infection.
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrated that the downregulation of B7-H4 induced 
by T. gondii infection led to the dysfunction of decidual macrophages and 
contributed to abnormal pregnancy outcomes. Moreover, adoptive transfer of 
B7-H4+ dMφ could improve adverse pregnancy outcomes induced by T. gondii 
infection.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13071-022-05560-9
PMCID: PMC9746109
PMID: 36514159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


458. Front Immunol. 2022 Dec 6;13:1088560. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1088560. 
eCollection 2022.

B7 family protein glycosylation: Promising novel targets in tumor treatment.

Xiao L(1)(2), Guan X(1)(2), Xiang M(1)(2), Wang Q(2), Long Q(1)(2), Yue C(3), 
Chen L(1)(2), Liu J(2), Liao C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics II, Affiliated Stomatological Hospital of Zunyi 
Medical University, Zunyi, China.
(2)Oral Disease Research Key Laboratory of Guizhou Tertiary Institution, School 
of Stomatology, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.
(3)School of Medicine and Technology, Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, China.

Cancer immunotherapy, including the inhibition of immune checkpoints, improves 
the tumor immune microenvironment and is an effective tool for cancer therapy. 
More effective and alternative inhibitory targets are critical for successful 
immune checkpoint blockade therapy. The interaction of the immunomodulatory 
ligand B7 family with corresponding receptors induces or inhibits T cell 
responses by sending co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory signals respectively. 
Blocking the glycosylation of the B7 family members PD-L1, PD-L2, B7-H3, and 
B7-H4 inhibited the self-stability and receptor binding of these immune 
checkpoint proteins, leading to immunosuppression and rapid tumor progression. 
Therefore, regulation of glycosylation may be the "golden key" to relieve tumor 
immunosuppression. The exploration of a more precise glycosylation regulation 
mechanism and glycan structure of B7 family proteins is conducive to the 
discovery and clinical application of antibodies and small molecule inhibitors.

Copyright © 2022 Xiao, Guan, Xiang, Wang, Long, Yue, Chen, Liu and Liao.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.1088560
PMCID: PMC9763287
PMID: 36561746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


459. Zhonghua Fu Chan Ke Za Zhi. 2022 Dec 25;57(12):921-931. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112141-20220904-00558.

[Expression and significance of immune checkpoint B7-homolog 4 in endometrial 
cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zong LJ(1), Xiang Y(1), Yu SN(2), Lu ZH(2), Chen J(2), Huang WH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100730, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences,Beijing 100730, China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan 
University, Shanghai 200032, China.

Objective: To investigate the expression of B7 homolog 4 (B7-H4) and its 
clinical significance in endometrial cancer. Methods: A total of 833 patients 
with endometrial cancer admitted to Peking Union Medical College Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences from 2009 to 2019, were enrolled. The 
expression of B7-H4, mismatch repair (MMR), p53, programmed cell death ligand 1 
(PD-L1) protein, and CD8+ T lymphocyte density in endometrial cancer tissues 
were detected by the EnVision two-step method of immunohistochemical staining. 
First-generation sequencing (Sanger method) was used to determine molecular 
subtyping of endometrial cancer. The χ2 test was used to compare the differences 
in positive expression rate of B7-H4 protein in endometrial cancer tissues with 
different clinicopathological features and molecular subtyping, PD-L1 protein 
expression, and CD8+ T lymphocyte density. Survival analyses [including 
recurrence-free survival (RFS) and disease-specific survival (DSS)] were 
performed for 664 patients with follow-up time≥3 months, with a median follow-up 
time of 31 months (range: 4-121 months), and the Cox proportional hazards 
regression model was used to analyze the relevant factors affecting the 
prognosis of patients with endometrial cancer. Results: (1) The median age of 
833 patients was 58 years (range: 25-88 years); pathological type: 595 with 
endometrioid carcinoma, 238 with non-endometrioid carcinoma; 
surgical-pathological staging: 542 cases at stage Ⅰ, 38 cases at stage Ⅱ, 173 
cases at stage Ⅲ, and 45 cases at stage Ⅳ. Molecular subtyping was performed in 
590 patients, including 50 with POLE mutation, 163 with mismatch repair defect 
(MMR-d) type, 246 with nospecific molecular change (NSMP) type, and 131 with p53 
mutation subtype. (2) B7-H4 protein was expressed with brownish-yellow stainind 
in the cell membrane and cytoplasm of endometrial carcinoma, and the positivity 
rate of B7-H4 protein was 71.5% (596/833). The positivity rates of B7-H4 protein 
among patients with different age, surgical-pathological stage, tumor grade, 
pathological type, depth of muscular invasion, presence or absence of 
lymphovascular space invasion, and molecular subtype were significantly 
different (all P<0.05). The positivity rates of B7-H4 protein among patients 
with different PD-L1 protein expression and CD8+ T lymphocyte density were not 
significantly different (P>0.05). The 5-year RFS (83.9%) and DSS (87.3%) of 
B7-H4 protein-positive patients had an increasing trend compared with the 5-year 
RFS (77.2%) and DSS (78.1%) of B7-H4 protein-negative patients, but there were 
not statistically significant differences (P=0.053, P=0.083). (3) Univariate 
analysis showed that the 5-year RFS and DSS of patients with different age, 
tumor grade, surgical-pathological stage, pathological type, depth of muscular 
invasion, lymphovascular space invasion, and molecular subtype were 
significantly different (all P<0.01). There were no significant differences in 
5-year RFS (P=0.184, P=0.113) and DSS (P=0.549, P=0.247) among patients with 
different CD8+ T lymphocyte density and PD-L1 protein expression. Further 
analysis according to molecular subtype, the results of CD8+ T lymphocyte 
density and PD-L1 protein expression showed that the 5-year RFS and DSS of B7-H4 
protein-positive patients were higher than those of B7-H4 protein-negative 
patients with NSMP subtype, low density of CD8+ T lymphocyte and PD-L1 
protein-negative endometrial carcinoma (all P<0.05), however, there was no 
significant difference in 5-year DSS between B7-H4 protein-positive patients and 
B7-H4 protein-negative patients with PD-L1 protein-negative endometrial cancer 
(P=0.060). Multivariate analysis showed that positive expression of B7-H4 
protein was an independent factor for 5-year RFS (HR=0.27, 95%CI: 0.09-0.78, 
P=0.016) and DSS (HR=0.16, 95%CI: 0.05-0.58, P=0.005) in patients with NSMP 
subtype endometrial carcinoma. In patients with low-density CD8+ T lymphocytes 
endometrial cancer, positive expression of B7-H4 protein was an independent 
factor for 5-year RFS (HR=0.45, 95%CI: 0.26-0.80, P=0.006), but it was not an 
independent factor for 5-year DSS. In patients with PD-L1 protein-negative 
endometrial cancer, B7-H4 protein was not an independent factor for 5-year RFS. 
Conclusion: B7-H4 protein expressed highly in endometrial carcinoma tissues, and 
its high expression is closely related to clinicopathological features, 
molecular subtype of p53 mutant and NSMP, and the favorable prognosis of 
patients with low density of CD8+ T lymphocyte immunophenotype endometrial 
carcinoma.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨免疫检查点B7同源物4（B7-H4）在子宫内膜癌组织中的表达及其临床意义。 方法： 
选择2009年至2019年中国医学科学院北京协和医院收治的833例子宫内膜癌患者。采用免疫组化EnVision二步法检测子宫内膜癌组织中B7-H4、错配修复（MMR）、p53、细胞程序性死亡配体1（PD-L1）蛋白的表达及CD8+ 
T淋巴细胞密度；采用第一代测序技术（Sanger法）对子宫内膜癌组织进行分子分型检测。比较不同临床病理特征、分子分型、PD-L1蛋白表达、CD8+ 
T淋巴细胞密度的子宫内膜癌组织中B7-H4蛋白阳性表达率的差异；对其中随访时间≥3个月的664例患者进行预后［包括无复发生存率（RFS）和疾病特异性生存率（DSS）］分析，其中位随访时间为31个月（范围：4~121个月），采用Cox比例风险回归模型对影响子宫内膜癌患者预后的相关因素进行单因素和多因素分析。 
结果： 
（1）833例子宫内膜癌患者的中位年龄为58岁（范围：25~88岁）；病理类型：子宫内膜样癌595例，非子宫内膜样癌238例；手术病理分期：Ⅰ期542例，Ⅱ期38例，Ⅲ期173例，Ⅳ期45例，不详35例。590例患者完成了分子分型检测，其中POLE突变型50例，错配修复缺陷（MMR-d）型163例，无特异性分子改变（NSMP）型246例，p53突变型131例。（2）在子宫内膜癌的细胞膜和细胞质中B7-H4蛋白呈棕黄色阳性表达，子宫内膜癌组织中B7-H4蛋白的阳性表达率为71.5%（596/833）。不同年龄、手术病理分期、肿瘤级别、病理类型、肌层浸润深度、有无淋巴脉管间隙浸润、分子分型患者的B7-H4蛋白阳性表达率分别比较，差异均有统计学意义（P均<0.05）；而不同PD-L1蛋白表达及CD8+ 
T淋巴细胞密度患者的B7-H4蛋白阳性表达率分别比较，差异则均无统计学意义（P均>0.05）。B7-H4蛋白阳性患者的5年RFS和DSS（83.9%、87.3%）分别与B7-H4蛋白阴性患者（77.2%、78.1%）比较均有增高趋势，但分别比较，差异均无统计学意义（P=0.053，P=0.083）。（3）单因素分析显示，不同年龄、肿瘤级别、手术病理分期、病理类型、肌层浸润深度、淋巴脉管间隙浸润、分子分型患者的5年RFS和DSS分别比较，差异均有统计学意义（P均<0.01）；不同CD8+ 
T淋巴细胞密度及PD-L1蛋白表达患者的5年RFS（P=0.184，P=0.113）及5年DSS（P=0.549，P=0.247）分别比较，差异均无统计学意义。进一步对不同分子分型、CD8+ 
T淋巴细胞密度、PD-L1蛋白表达的子宫内膜癌患者进行分析，结果显示，在分子分型为NSMP型、CD8+ 
T淋巴细胞低密度、PD-L1蛋白阴性表达的子宫内膜癌患者中，除PD-L1蛋白阴性子宫内膜癌患者中的B7-H4蛋白阳性患者的5年DSS与B7-H4蛋白阴性患者比较无显著差异（P=0.060）外，其他情况下B7-H4蛋白阳性患者的5年RFS和DSS均显著高于B7-H4阴性患者（P均<0.05）。多因素分析显示，在NSMP型子宫内膜癌患者中，B7-H4蛋白阳性表达是影响5年RFS（HR=0.27，95%CI为0.09~0.78，P=0.016）和5年DSS（HR=0.16，95%CI为0.05~0.58，P=0.005）的独立因素；在CD8+ 
T淋巴细胞低密度的子宫内膜癌患者中，B7-H4蛋白阳性表达是影响5年RFS的独立因素（HR=0.45，95%CI为0.26~0.80，P=0.006），但并不是影响5年DSS的独立因素；在PD-L1蛋白阴性表达的子宫内膜癌患者中，B7-H4蛋白表达并不是影响5年RFS的独立因素。 
结论： 子宫内膜癌组织中B7-H4蛋白高表达，且其高表达与具有良好的临床病理特征、分子分型为p53突变型和NSMP型、免疫表型为CD8+ 
T淋巴细胞低密度患者的良好预后密切相关。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112141-20220904-00558
PMID: 36562226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. J Ovarian Res. 2023 Jan 6;16(1):3. doi: 10.1186/s13048-022-01076-z.

The stromal tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes, cancer stemness, 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and B7-H4 expression in ovarian serous 
carcinoma.

Hwang C(1), Lee HJ(2), Na JY(2), Kim KH(3), Song YJ(4), Kim JY(2), Kim K(5), 
Shin DH(2), Park JY(2), Kim SY(2), Lee JH(2), Choi KU(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Convergence of Biomedical Science and Technology, 
Pusan National Yangsan Hospital, 20, Geumo-Ro, Mulguem-Eup, Yangsan-Si, 
Gyeongsangnam-Do, South Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, Pusan National University Yangsan Hospital, 20, 
Geumo-Ro, Mulguem-Eup, Yangsan-Si, Gyeongsangnam-Do, South Korea.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pusan National University Hospital, 
179 Gudeok-Ro, Seo-Gu, Busan, 49241, South Korea.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pusan National University Yangsan 
Hospital, 20, Geumo-Ro, Mulguem-Eup, Yangsan-Si, Gyeongsangnam-Do, South Korea.
(5)Department of Pathology, Pusan National University Hospital and Pusan 
National University School of Medicine, 179 Gudeok-Ro, Seo-Gu, Busan, 49241, 
South Korea.
(6)Department of Pathology, Pusan National University Hospital and Pusan 
National University School of Medicine, 179 Gudeok-Ro, Seo-Gu, Busan, 49241, 
South Korea. kuchoi@pusan.ac.kr.

BACKGROUND: B7-H4 is expressed in various types of cancers and its expression 
inversely correlates with the degree of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). 
Studies have shown the relationship between B7-H4, cancer stem cell (CSC) 
properties, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in various cancers. 
However, very few studies have investigated the relationship between B7-H4, 
TILs, cancer stemness, and EMT in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). The present 
study aimed to elucidate whether B7-H4 is involved in immune evasion and examine 
whether B7-H4 is associated with cancer stemness or EMT in ovarian serous 
carcinoma, the most common type of EOC. The clinical significance of B7-H4 was 
also investigated to evaluate its potential as a therapeutic target.
METHODS: A total of 145 patients included in this study. The degree of stromal 
TILs was evaluated using hematoxylin and eosin (H&E)-stained slides. 
Immunohistochemical analysis of B7-H4, CSC-related biomarkers (CD24, CD44s, 
CD133, and ALDH1), and EMT-related biomarkers (E-cadherin, N-cadherin, and 
vimentin) was performed using tissue microarray. qRT-PCR for VTCN1, CD24, CD44, 
PROM1, ALDH1, CDH1, CDH2, and VIM genes was performed on 38 frozen tissue 
samples. The mRNA expression levels were analyzed using Gene Expression 
Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA) online analysis tool.
RESULTS: B7-H4 protein expression positively correlated with the degree of 
stromal TILs. CD24, CD44s, and CD133 expression showed a positive correlation 
with B7-H4 expression at both the protein and mRNA levels, but ALDH1 correlated 
only at the protein level. E-cadherin expression was positively correlated with 
B7-H4 expression at both the protein and mRNA levels. N-cadherin and vimentin 
expression was inversely related to B7-H4 expression only at the mRNA level. 
B7-H4 positive patients were associated with higher tumor grade and lower 
overall survival rate than B7-H4 negative patients, especially in ovarian serous 
carcinoma with low stromal TILs.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrates that B7-H4 may not be involved in 
the immune evasion mechanism, but is involved in cancer stemness and 
mesenchymal-epithelial transition. In addition, B7-H4 may be a therapeutic 
target for the treatment of ovarian serous carcinoma, especially with low 
stromal TILs.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13048-022-01076-z
PMCID: PMC9825048
PMID: 36609273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declare that they have no competing 
interests.


461. Clin Cancer Res. 2023 Mar 14;29(6):991-993. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-22-3640.

New Life of Topoisomerase I Inhibitors as Antibody-Drug Conjugate Warheads.

Pommier Y(1), Thomas A(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Pharmacology and Developmental Therapeutics Branch, 
Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

Comment in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2023 Mar 14;29(6):1086-1101.

Comment on
    Clin Cancer Res. 2022 Nov 10;:

Antibody-drug conjugates (ADC) allow the delivery of cytotoxic chemotherapeutic 
agents to tumors. Two ADC delivering topoisomerase I (TOP1) poisons (Enhertu and 
Trodelvy) have recently been FDA-approved for Her2- and Trop2-expressing solid 
tumors. In a recent study, a TOP1-anti B7-H4 ADC was described and shown to be 
synergistic with a novel PARP1-selective inhibitor. See related article by 
Kinneer et al., p. 1086.

©2023 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-22-3640
PMCID: PMC10023384
PMID: 36637483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: YP and AT report research 
funding to the institution from the following entities: EMD Serono Research & 
Development Institute; AstraZeneca; Tarveda Therapeutics; Immunomedics and 
Prolynx.


462. Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2023 Nov 1;147(11):1288-1297. doi: 
10.5858/arpa.2022-0182-OA.

B7-H4 Further Stratifies Patients With Endometrial Cancer Exhibiting a 
Nonspecific Molecular Profile.

Zong L(1)(2)(3), Yu S(2), Mo S(2), Sun Z(2), Lu Z(2), Chen J(2), Xiang Y(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Gynecologic Oncology (Zong, Xiang), Peking Union 
Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)The Department Pathology (Zong, Yu, Mo, Sun, Lu, Chen), Peking Union Medical 
College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)The National Clinical Research Centre for Obstetric & Gynecologic Diseases, 
Beijing, China (Zong, Xiang).

CONTEXT.—: Endometrial cancer is classified into 4 molecular subtypes: DNA 
polymerase epsilon ultramutated, mismatch repair deficient, p53 mutant, and 
nonspecific molecular profile (NSMP). Additional biomarkers are urgently needed 
to better characterize the NSMP subtype, the largest group with heterogeneous 
pathologic features and prognoses.
OBJECTIVE.—: To investigate the expression of B7 homolog 3 (B7-H3), B7 homolog 4 
(B7-H4), and V-set and immunoglobulin domain containing 3 (VSIG-3, a ligand for 
B7-H5) in 833 patients with endometrial cancer and determine their associations 
with clinicopathologic and molecular features as well as survival outcomes.
DESIGN.—: Molecular classification was determined by polymerase epsilon 
sequencing and immunohistochemical staining for p53 and mismatch repair 
proteins. B7-H3, B7-H4, VSIG-3, and programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) were 
detected via immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS.—: The positivity rates for B7-H3 in each of the tumor and immune cells, 
B7-H4 (exclusively in tumor cells), and VSIG-3 (exclusively in tumor cells) were 
89.0%, 42.3%, 71.5%, and 99.8%, respectively. B7-H3 and B7-H4 positivity in 
tumor cells was associated with favorable pathologic features and prognosis. In 
contrast, B7-H3 expression in immune cells was frequent in samples with 
unfavorable pathologic features; those with p53-mutant subtype, PD-L1 
positivity, and a high density of CD8+ T cells; and in patients with poor 
prognoses. Positive B7-H4 expression was a predictor of improved survival in 
patients with the NSMP subtype independent of tumor stage or pathologic 
features.
CONCLUSIONS.—: The NSMP subgroup of endometrial cancer can be further stratified 
by B7-H4 status. Incorporating B7-H4 status into the molecular classification of 
NSMP could improve the ability to predict disease relapse.

© 2023 College of American Pathologists.

DOI: 10.5858/arpa.2022-0182-OA
PMID: 36669510


463. Front Oncol. 2023 Jan 18;12:1091383. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1091383.
eCollection  2022.

Role of B7 family members in glioma: Promising new targets for tumor 
immunotherapy.

Wang Y(1), Li M(1), Wang G(1), Wu H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Third People's Hospital of Zhengzhou, 
Zhengzhou, Henan, China.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Affiliated Cancer Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, China.

Glioma, is a representative type of intracranial tumor among adults, usually has 
a weak prognosis and limited treatment options. Traditional therapies, including 
surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy, have had little impact on patient 
survival time. Immunotherapies designed to target the programmed cell death 
protein 1 (PD-1)/programmed death ligand 1 (PD-L1) signaling pathway have 
successfully treated various human cancers, informing the development of similar 
therapies for glioma. However, anti-PD-L1 response rates remain limited in 
glioma patients. Thus, exploring novel checkpoints targeting additional 
immunomodulatory pathways for activating durable antitumor immune responses and 
improving glioma outcomes is needed. Researchers have identified other B7 family 
checkpoint molecules, including PD-L2, B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4, and B7-H6. The 
current review article evaluates the expression of all 10 reported members of 
the B7 family in human glioma using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the 
Genotype-Tissue Expression (GTEx) data, as well as summarizes studies evaluating 
the clinical meanings and functions of B7 family molecules in gliomas. B7 family 
checkpoints may contribute to different immunotherapeutic management options for 
glioma patients.

Copyright © 2023 Wang, Li, Wang and Wu.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2022.1091383
PMCID: PMC9890054
PMID: 36741734

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


464. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Jan 21;24(3):2160. doi: 10.3390/ijms24032160.

The Immune Checkpoint Landscape in Tumor Cells of Pancreatic Ductal 
Adenocarcinoma.

Loch FN(1), Kamphues C(2), Beyer K(1), Schineis C(1), Rayya W(1), Lauscher 
JC(1), Horst D(3), Dragomir MP(3)(4)(5), Schallenberg S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member 
of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 12203 Berlin, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Surgery, Park-Klinik Weißensee, 13086 Berlin, Germany.
(3)Institute of Pathology, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member 
of Freie Universität Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 10117 Berlin, 
Germany.
(4)Berlin Institute of Health at Charité, Charitéplatz 1, 10117 Berlin, Germany.
(5)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), German Cancer Consortium (DKTK), 
Partner Site Berlin, 69210 Heidelberg, Germany.

Immune checkpoint therapy (ICT) has shown promising potential in the treatment 
of multiple solid tumors. However, the role of ICT in pancreatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma (PDAC) remains limited. Patterns of immune checkpoints (ICs) in 
PDAC represent the basis for establishing a potent ICT. The aim of this study is 
to create a profile of IC expression and its prognostic relevance in cancer 
cells of PDAC. Therefore, tumor cells from peripheral and central tissue 
microarray (TMA) spots from histologically confirmed PDAC of 68 patients after 
tumor resection were investigated in terms of expressions of TIM3, IDO, B7H4, 
LAG3, VISTA, and PD-L1 using immunohistochemistry. The presence of the 
respective ICs was compared to overall survival (OS). The presence of VISTA and 
PD-L1 significantly correlates with shorter OS (median OS: 22 months vs. 7 
months and 22 months vs. 11 months, respectively, p < 0.05). For the presence of 
TIM3, IDO, B7H4, and LAG3, no difference in OS was observed (p > 0.05). The 
analysis of OS of combined subgroups for VISTA and PD-L1 (VISTA and PD-L1 neg., 
VISTA pos. and PD-L1 neg., VISTA neg. and PD-L1 pos., and VISTA and PD-L1 pos.) 
yielded overall statistical significance difference (p = 0.02). These results 
suggest that the presence of VISTA and PD-L1 is of prognostic relevance and 
potentially qualifies them as targets for ICT.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24032160
PMCID: PMC9917344
PMID: 36768480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


465. Transl Oncol. 2023 May;31:101653. doi: 10.1016/j.tranon.2023.101653. Epub
2023  Mar 11.

MALAT-1: Immunomodulatory lncRNA hampering the innate and the adaptive immune 
arms in triple negative breast cancer.

Mekky RY(1), Ragab MF(2), Manie T(3), Attia AA(4), Youness RA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, October 
University for Modern Sciences and Arts (MSA University), Cairo 12622, Egypt.
(2)Pharmacology Department, School of Life and Medical Sciences, University of 
Hertfordshire Hosted by Global Academic Foundation, Cairo 11835, Egypt.
(3)Department of Breast Surgery, National Cancer Institute, Cairo University, 
Cairo, Egypt.
(4)General Surgery Department, Ain Shams University, Demerdash Hospital, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(5)Biology and Biochemistry Department, Molecular Genetics Research Team (MGRT), 
School of Life and Medical Sciences, University of Hertfordshire Hosted by 
Global Academic Foundation, Cairo 11835, Egypt. Electronic address: 
r.youness@herts.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is known as hot immunogenic 
tumor. Yet, it is one of the most aggressive BC subtypes. TNBC evolve several 
tactics to evade the immune surveillance phenomena, one of which is shedding of 
natural killer (NK) cells activating immune ligands such as MICA/B and/or by 
inducing the expression of the immune checkpoints such as PD-L1 and B7-H4. 
MALAT-1 is an oncogenic lncRNA. MALAT-1 immunogenic profile is not well 
investigated.
AIM: The study aims at exploring the immunogenic role of MALAT-1 in TNBC 
patients and cell lines and to identify its molecular mechanism in altering both 
innate and adaptive immune cells present at the tumor microenvironment of TNBC 
METHODS: BC patients (n = 35) were recruited. Primary NK cells and cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes were isolated from normal individuals using the negative selection 
method. MDA-MB-231 cells were cultured and transfected by several 
oligonucleotides by lipofection technique. Screening of ncRNAs was performed 
using q-RT-PCR. Immunological functional analysis experiments were performed 
upon co-culturing primary natural killer cells and cytotoxic T lymphocytes using 
LDH assay. Bioinformatics analysis was performed to identify potential microRNAs 
targeted by MALAT-1.
RESULTS: MALAT-1 expression was significantly upregulated in BC patinets with a 
profound expression in TNBC patients compared to their normal counterparts. 
Correlation analysis revealed a positive correlation between MALAT-1, tumor size 
and lymph node metastasis. Knocking down of MALAT-1 in MDA-MB-231 cells resulted 
in a significant induction of MICA/B, repression of PD-L1 and B7-H4 expression 
levels. Enhancement of cytotoxic activity of co-cultured NK and CD8+ cells with 
MALAT-1 siRNAs transfected MDA-MB-231 cells. In silico analysis revealed that 
miR-34a and miR-17-5p are potential targets to MALAT-1; accordingly, they were 
found to be downregulated in BC patients. Forcing the expression of miR-34a in 
MDA-MB-231 cells resulted in a significant induction in MICA/B levels. Ectopic 
expression of miR-17-5p in MDA-MB-231 cells significantly repressed the 
expression of PD-L1 and B7-H4 checkpoints. Validations of MALAT-1/miR-34a" and 
"MALAT-1/miR-17-5p axes were performed by a series of co-transfections and 
functional assessment of cytotoxic profile of primary immune cells.
CONCLUSION: This study proposes a novel epigenetic alteration exerted by TNBC 
cells mainly by inducing the expression of MALAT-1 lncRNA. MALAT-1 mediates 
innate and adaptive immune suppression events partially via targeting 
miR-34a/MICA/B and miR-175p/PD-L1/B7-H4 axes in TNBC patients and cell lines.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tranon.2023.101653
PMCID: PMC10025146
PMID: 36907052

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


466. Cells. 2023 Mar 8;12(6):832. doi: 10.3390/cells12060832.

Prognostic Role of Soluble and Extracellular Vesicle-Associated PD-L1, B7-H3 and 
B7-H4 in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Treated with Immune Checkpoint 
Inhibitors.

Genova C(1)(2), Tasso R(3)(4), Rosa A(5), Rossi G(6)(7), Reverberi D(8), Fontana 
V(5), Marconi S(9), Croce M(10), Dal Bello MG(11), Dellepiane C(6), Tagliamento 
M(2), Ciferri MC(3), Zullo L(6), Fedeli A(12), Alama A(9), Cortese K(3), Gentili 
C(3)(4), Cella E(6), Anselmi G(13), Mora M(13), Barletta G(6), Rijavec E(14), 
Grossi F(14), Pronzato P(6), Coco S(9).

Author information:
(1)UOC Clinica di Oncologia Medica, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 
16132 Genova, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna e Specialità Mediche (DiMI), Università 
degli Studi di Genova, 16132 Genova, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale (DIMES), Università degli Studi di 
Genova, 16132 Genova, Italy.
(4)UO Oncologia Cellulare, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 16132 Genova, 
Italy.
(5)U.O. Epidemiologia Clinica, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 16132 
Genova, Italy.
(6)U.O.C. Oncologia Medica 2, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 16132 
Genova, Italy.
(7)Dipartimento di Medicina, Chirurgia e Scienze Sperimentali Università di 
Sassari, 07100 Sassari, Italy.
(8)U.O. Patologia Molecolare, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 16132 
Genoa, Italy.
(9)U.O.S. Tumori Polmonari, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 16132 
Genova, Italy.
(10)U.O.C. Bioterapie, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 16132 Genova, 
Italy.
(11)S.S.D. Animal Facility, IRCSS Ospedale Policlinico San Martino, 16132 Genoa, 
Italy.
(12)Dipartimento di Ingegneria Navale, Elettrica, Elettronica e delle 
Telecomunicazioni (DITEN), Università degli Studi di Genova, 16145 Genova, 
Italy.
(13)U.O. Anatomia Patologica Ospedaliera, IRCCS Ospedale Policlinico San 
Martino, 16132 Genova, Italy.
(14)Unità di Oncologia Medica, Dipartimento della Medicina e Chirurgia, 
Università dell'Insubria, ASST dei Sette Laghi, 21100 Varese, Italy.

The treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) has changed dramatically 
with the advent of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs). Despite encouraging 
results, their efficacy remains limited to a subgroup of patients. Circulating 
immune checkpoints in soluble (s) form and associated with extracellular 
vesicles (EVs) represent promising markers, especially in ICI-based therapeutic 
settings. We evaluated the prognostic role of PD-L1 and of two B7 family members 
(B7-H3, B7-H4), both soluble and EV-associated, in a cohort of advanced NSCLC 
patients treated with first- (n = 56) or second-line (n = 126) ICIs. In 
treatment-naïve patients, high baseline concentrations of sPD-L1 (>24.2 pg/mL) 
were linked to worse survival, whereas high levels of sB7-H3 (>0.5 ng/mL) and 
sB7-H4 (>63.9 pg/mL) were associated with better outcomes. EV characterization 
confirmed the presence of EVs positive for PD-L1 and B7-H3, while only a small 
portion of EVs expressed B7-H4. The comparison between biomarker levels at the 
baseline and in the first radiological assessment under ICI-based treatment 
showed a significant decrease in EV-PD-L1 and an increase in EV-B7H3 in patients 
in the disease response to ICIs. Our study shows that sPD-L1, sB7-H3 and sB7-H4 
levels are emerging prognostic markers in patients with advanced NSCLC treated 
with ICIs and suggests potential EV involvement in the disease response to ICIs.

DOI: 10.3390/cells12060832
PMCID: PMC10047289
PMID: 36980174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C.G. (Carlo Genova) declares honoraria from 
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers-Squibb, Eli-Lilly, Merck Sharp and Dohme, 
Novartis, Roche, Sanofi, Takeda and ThermoFisher. Research grants from: 
Bristol-Myers Squibb and Italian Ministry of Health. G.R. declares honoraria 
from AstraZeneca, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche, MSD and Janssen. C.D. declares 
honoraria from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Roche and Astra Zeneca. M.T. declares 
honoraria for travel, accommodation, expenses from Roche, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
AstraZeneca, Takeda and Eli Lilly. Honoraria as medical writers: Novartis, Amgen 
and MSD. G.B. declares honoraria from AstraZeneca, Roche, Pierre Fabre and GSK. 
E.R. declares a travel grant from: daichii sankyo and honoraria from BMS, 
SANOFI, ASTRA ZENECA, MSD and ROCHE. F.G. declares his advisory role in ad hoc 
advisory boards/consultations (last 3 years); honoraria from Eli Lilly, Roche, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, AstraZeneca, Pierre Fabre, BMS, MSD, Novartis, Merck, 
Otsuka, Novartis and Takeda; Honoraria for seminars/talks to the industry (last 
3 years): Eli Lilly, Roche, Boehringer Ingelheim, AstraZeneca, Pierre Fabre, 
AMGEN, Celgene, BMS and MSD; Research Funding (last 3 years): AstraZeneca, BMS 
and MSD. The other authors declare no conflict of interest.


467. Cells. 2023 Mar 10;12(6):861. doi: 10.3390/cells12060861.

B7H4 Expression Is More Frequent in MSS Status Colorectal Cancer and Is 
Negatively Associated with Tumour Infiltrating Lymphocytes.

Dawidowicz M(1), Kula A(1), Mielcarska S(2), Kiczmer P(3), Skiba H(3), Krygier 
M(3), Chrabańska M(3), Piecuch J(4), Szrot M(4), Robotycka J(2), Ochman B(2), 
Strzałkowska B(2), Czuba Z(5), Świętochowska E(2), Waniczek D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological Surgery, Faculty of Medical Sciences in Zabrze, 
Medical University of Silesia, 41-808 Ksatowice, Poland.
(2)Department of Medical and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medical Sciences in 
Zabrze, Medical University of Silesia, 19 Jordana, 41-800 Zabrze, Poland.
(3)Department and Chair of Pathomorphology, Faculty of Medical Sciences in 
Zabrze, Medical University of Silesia, 13-15 3 Maja, 41-800 Zabrze, Poland.
(4)Department of General and Bariatric Surgery and Emergency Medicine, Faculty 
of Medical Sciences in Zabrze, Medical University of Silesia, 41-808 Katowice, 
Poland.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medical Sciences in 
Zabrze, Medical University of Silesia, 40-055 Katowice, Poland.

The immunotherapies based on ICIs in CRC are nowadays limited to microsatellite 
unstable tumours which are approximately 15% of all CRC cases. There are a few 
new immune checkpoints belonging to the B7 family, including B7H4. B7H4 
expression is associated with so-called "cold tumours", and its function is 
linked to the downregulation of various immune cell populations. Our study aimed 
to investigate whether B7H4 expression is dependent on microsatellite status in 
CRC and on elucidating the immunological context in which the expression of B7H4 
occurs. We enrolled 167 patients in the study. We prepared the homogenates from 
tumour tissues and healthy adjacent tissue to assess the B7H4 levels and the 
Bio-Plex Pro Human 48-cytokine panel. We assessed the microsatellite status of 
the tumour, B7H4 expression, CD8+ T cell population, and the TILs and budding in 
H + E stained slides by the IHC method. We used an online available database for 
further exploring the biological characteristics of B7H4. The expression of B7H4 
was more frequent in microsatellite stable tumours, and was negatively 
associated with TILs. B7H4 is positively correlated with antitumour 
immunosuppressive iTME, thus contributing to the immunosuppressive environment 
in CRC.

DOI: 10.3390/cells12060861
PMCID: PMC10046962
PMID: 36980202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


468. Breast. 2023 Jun;69:312-322. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2023.03.007. Epub 2023
Mar  24.

Future potential targets of antibody-drug conjugates in breast cancer.

Corti C(1), Boscolo Bielo L(2), Schianca AC(2), Salimbeni BT(2), Criscitiello 
C(2), Curigliano G(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of New Drugs and Early Drug Development for Innovative Therapies, 
European Institute of Oncology, IRCCS, Milan, Italy; Department of Oncology and 
Hemato-Oncology (DIPO), University of Milan, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: 
chiara.corti@ieo.it.
(2)Division of New Drugs and Early Drug Development for Innovative Therapies, 
European Institute of Oncology, IRCCS, Milan, Italy; Department of Oncology and 
Hemato-Oncology (DIPO), University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

Metastatic breast cancer (BC) remains an incurable disease. Besides endocrine 
and targeted agents, chemotherapy is still a relevant therapeutic option for 
this disease. Recently, antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) have shown to overcome 
the lack of tumor specificity and systemic toxicity typically associated with 
traditional chemotherapies, thus improving the therapeutic index. To effectively 
exploit this technological breakthrough, identification of optimal target 
antigens (Ags) is of utmost importance. To make the ideal target, differential 
expression of target Ags between healthy and cancer tissues, as well as specific 
mechanisms of ADC internalization after Ag-antibody interaction are required. 
Therefore, several in silico strategies to identify and characterize new 
promising candidate Ags have been developed. If initial in vitro and in vivo 
positive data are documented, thus providing a biological rationale for further 
Ag investigation, early phase clinical trials are designed. In BC, these 
strategies have already led to the development of effective ADCs, namely 
trastuzumab emtansine (T-DM1), trastuzumab deruxtecan (T-DXd) and sacituzumab 
govitecan (SG), primarily targeting HER2 and TROP-2. However, promising new Ags 
are currently under investigation, with encouraging results especially coming 
from targeting HER3, FRα, Tissue Factor, LIV-1, ROR1-2, and B7-H4. In this 
review, we describe the landscape of emergent and future potential targets 
(i.e., other than HER2 and TROP-2) investigated in BC for ADC development. 
Predominant target expression, function, preclinical rationale, potential 
clinical implication, as well as preliminary clinical trial results are 
provided.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2023.03.007
PMCID: PMC10063401
PMID: 36996620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare the following financial interests/personal relationships which may be 
considered as potential competing interests: Chiara Corti has no potential 
conflicts of interest to disclose. Luca Boscolo Bielo has no potential conflicts 
of interest to disclose. Ambra Carnevale Schianca has no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose. Beatrice Taurelli Salimbeni has no potential conflicts of 
interest to disclose. Carmen Criscitiello reports personal fees for consulting, 
advisory role, and speakers’ bureau from Lilly, Roche, Novartis, MSD, Seagen, 
Gilead and Pfizer. All the competing interests were outside the submitted work. 
Giuseppe Curigliano reports personal fees for consulting, advisory role and 
speakers’ bureau from Roche/Genentech, Novartis, Pfizer, Lilly, Foundation 
Medicine, Samsung and Daiichi Sankyo; honoraria from Ellipses Pharma and fees 
for travel and accommodations from Roche/Genentech and Pfizer. All the competing 
interests were outside the submitted work.


469. Biochem Pharmacol. 2023 Jun;212:115537. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2023.115537. Epub
 2023 Apr 3.

Ethacrynic acid suppresses B7-H4 expression involved in epithelial-mesenchymal 
transition of lung adenocarcinoma cells via inhibiting STAT3 pathway.

Yu L(1), Ji Kim H(1), Kim B(1), Jung Byun H(1), Minh Nguyen T(1), Ji Kim E(2), 
Huy Phùng H(1), Hyeon Kim Y(1), Rahman M(1), Yun Jang J(3), Bae Rho S(4), Jin 
Kang G(2), Lee H(4), Lee K(1), Kyung Han H(1), Kyung Park M(5), Hoon Lee C(6).

Author information:
(1)BK21 FOUR Team and Integrated Research Institute for Drug Development, 
College of Pharmacy, Dongguk University, Seoul 04620, Korea.
(2)Lillehei Heart Institute, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, 
USA.
(3)BK21 FOUR Team and Integrated Research Institute for Drug Development, 
College of Pharmacy, Dongguk University, Seoul 04620, Korea; National Cancer 
Center, Goyang 10408, Korea.
(4)National Cancer Center, Goyang 10408, Korea.
(5)BK21 FOUR Team and Integrated Research Institute for Drug Development, 
College of Pharmacy, Dongguk University, Seoul 04620, Korea; National Cancer 
Center, Goyang 10408, Korea. Electronic address: mkpark@ncc.re.kr.
(6)BK21 FOUR Team and Integrated Research Institute for Drug Development, 
College of Pharmacy, Dongguk University, Seoul 04620, Korea. Electronic address: 
uatheone@dongguk.edu.

Lung cancer is characterized by high incidence and mortality. 90% of cancer 
deaths are caused by metastases. The epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) 
process in cancer cells is a prerequisite for the metastatic process. Ethacrynic 
acid (ECA) is a loop diuretic that inhibits the EMT process in lung cancer 
cells. EMT has been related to the tumour immunemicroenvironment. However, the 
effect of ECA on immune checkpoint molecules in the context of cancer has not 
been fully identified. In the present study, we found that 
sphingosylphosphorylcholine (SPC) and TGF-β1, awell-known EMT inducer, induced 
the expression of B7-H4 in lung cancer cells. We also investigated the 
involvement of B7-H4 in the SPC-induced EMT process. Knockdown of B7-H4 
suppressed SPC-induced EMT, while B7-H4 overexpression enhanced EMT of lung 
cancer cells. ECA inhibited SPC/TGF-β1-induced B7-H4 expression via suppression 
of STAT3 activation. Moreover, ECA inhibits the colonization of mice lung by 
tail vein-injected LLC1 cells. ECA-treated mice increased the CD4-positive T 
cells in lung tumour tissues. In summary, these results suggested that ECA 
inhibits B7-H4 expression via STAT3 inhibition, leading to SPC/TGF-β1-induced 
EMT. Therefore, ECA might be an immune oncological drug for B7-H4-positive 
cancer, especially lung cancer.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2023.115537
PMID: 37019184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


470. Int Immunopharmacol. 2023 May;118:110133. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2023.110133.
 Epub 2023 Apr 5.

B7x in cancer immunity and immunotherapy.

Mortezaee K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Kurdistan University of Medical 
Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran. Electronic address: mortezaee.k@muk.ac.ir.

B7x (also called B7-H4) is a co-inhibitory molecule of B7 family that is highly 
expressed in non-inflamed or cold cancers, and its aberrant expression is 
contributed to cancer progression and poor outcomes. B7x preferentially 
expresses on antigen-presenting cells (APCs) and in tumor cells, and it acts as 
an alternative anti-inflammatory immune checkpoint for hampering peripheral 
immune responses. Augmented infiltration of immunosuppressive cells, reduced 
proliferation and effector function of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, and increased 
generation of regulatory T cells (Tregs) are outcomes of increased B7x activity 
in cancer. Evaluation of B7x in sera can be exploited as an effective biomarker 
of response in cancer patients. B7x overexpression generally occurs in 
programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)- cancers and is involved in tumor resistance 
to anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1), anti-PD-L1 or anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte 
associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) therapy. Co-expression of B7x receptor with PD-1 
on CD8+ T cells has made the anti-B7x a fruitful approach for reinvigoration of 
the functionality of exhausted T cells and is served as a complementary regimen 
in patients who are irresponsive to the common immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) 
therapy. An advance in the field is the development of bispecific antibodies 
against B7x with other regulatory molecules within tumor microenvironment (TME).

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2023.110133
PMID: 37028278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


471. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2023 Jul;99(1):103-112. doi: 10.1111/cen.14923. Epub
2023  Apr 26.

Association of B7H3 and B7H4 gene polymorphisms and protein expression with the 
development and prognosis of autoimmune thyroid diseases.

Ozaki H(1), Inoue N(1)(2), Iwatani Y(1), Watanabe A(1), Yamamoto M(1), Kitahara 
N(1), Tanikawa S(1), Noguchi Y(1), Hidaka Y(2), Watanabe M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences, Department of Clinical Laboratory and Biomedical 
Sciences, Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Clinical Investigation, Osaka University Hospital, Osaka, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: The prognosis of autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs), including 
Graves' disease (GD) and Hashimoto's disease (HD), varies among patients. B7-H3 
and B7-H4, members of the B7 family of proteins, regulate immune response. To 
clarify the association of B7-H3 and B7-H4 with the pathogenesis and prognosis 
of AITDs, we examined the expression of the soluble and membrane form of B7-H3 
and B7-H4 and genotyped single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the B7H3 and 
B7H4 genes.
METHODS: We examined the expression of the membrane form of B7-H3 and B7-H4 by 
flow cytometry and their soluble forms by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. We 
genotyped SNPs in B7H3 and B7H4 in 187 GD patients, 217 HD patients, and 110 
healthy volunteers using the PCR-RFLP method.
RESULTS: The frequency of the B7H3 rs3816661 CC genotype was higher in patients 
with severe HD. G carriers of B7H4 rs10754339 A/G and B7H4 rs13505 T/G were more 
frequent in patients with AITD. A carrier of B7H4 rs10158166 A/G and C carriers 
of B7H4 rs3806373 C/T were more frequent in patients with intractable GD. The 
proportion of B7-H3+ monocytes was higher in the CC genotype of B7H3 rs3816661 
C/T than in the other genotypes and was lower in patients with GD and HD than in 
healthy controls. The concentration of soluble B7-H4 was lower in the TG 
genotype of B7H4 rs13505 T/G than in the TT genotype and was higher in patients 
with AITD than in healthy controls.
CONCLUSION: B7H3 and B7H4 are associated with AITD susceptibility and prognosis.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.14923
PMID: 37066992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Cell Mol Immunol. 2023 Jul;20(7):694-713. doi: 10.1038/s41423-023-01019-8.
Epub  2023 Apr 17.

Recent advancements in the B7/CD28 immune checkpoint families: new biology and 
clinical therapeutic strategies.

Pulanco MC(1), Madsen AT(1)(2), Tanwar A(1)(3), Corrigan DT(1), Zang 
X(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, New York, NY, 10461, USA.
(2)Department of Urology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY, 
10461, USA.
(3)Department of Oncology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY, 
10461, USA.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, New York, NY, 10461, USA. xingxing.zang@einsteinmed.edu.
(5)Department of Urology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY, 
10461, USA. xingxing.zang@einsteinmed.edu.
(6)Department of Oncology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY, 
10461, USA. xingxing.zang@einsteinmed.edu.
(7)Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, NY, 
10461, USA. xingxing.zang@einsteinmed.edu.

The B7/CD28 families of immune checkpoints play vital roles in negatively or 
positively regulating immune cells in homeostasis and various diseases. Recent 
basic and clinical studies have revealed novel biology of the B7/CD28 families 
and new therapeutics for cancer therapy. In this review, we discuss the newly 
discovered KIR3DL3/TMIGD2/HHLA2 pathways, PD-1/PD-L1 and B7-H3 as metabolic 
regulators, the glycobiology of PD-1/PD-L1, B7x (B7-H4) and B7-H3, and the 
recently characterized PD-L1/B7-1 cis-interaction. We also cover the 
tumor-intrinsic and -extrinsic resistance mechanisms to current anti-PD-1/PD-L1 
and anti-CTLA-4 immunotherapies in clinical settings. Finally, we review new 
immunotherapies targeting B7-H3, B7x, PD-1/PD-L1, and CTLA-4 in current clinical 
trials.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to CSI and USTC.

DOI: 10.1038/s41423-023-01019-8
PMCID: PMC10310771
PMID: 37069229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: XZ is the scientific co-founder of NextPoint 
Therapeutics. The other authors declare no competing interests.


473. Exp Mol Med. 2023 May;55(5):999-1012. doi: 10.1038/s12276-023-00991-5. Epub
2023  May 1.

Chronic LCMV infection regulates the effector T cell response by inducing the 
generation of less immunogenic dendritic cells.

Yoo S(#)(1)(2), Jeong YH(#)(1)(2), Choi HH(3), Chae S(4), Hwang D(5), Shin 
SJ(3), Ha SJ(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, College of Life Science and Biotechnology, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, 03722, Republic of Korea.
(2)Brain Korea 21 (BK21) FOUR Program, Yonsei Education & Research Center for 
Biosystems, Yonsei University, Seoul, 03722, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Microbiology, Institute for Immunology and Immunological 
Diseases, Brain Korea 21 PLUS Project for Medical Science, Yonsei University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)Korea Brain Bank, Korea Brain Research Institute (KBRI), Daegu, 41062, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Biological Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, 08826, 
Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, College of Life Science and Biotechnology, Yonsei 
University, Seoul, 03722, Republic of Korea. sjha@yonsei.ac.kr.
(7)Brain Korea 21 (BK21) FOUR Program, Yonsei Education & Research Center for 
Biosystems, Yonsei University, Seoul, 03722, Republic of Korea. 
sjha@yonsei.ac.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

Chronic viral infection impairs systemic immunity in the host; however, the 
mechanism underlying the dysfunction of immune cells in chronic viral infection 
is incompletely understood. In this study, we studied the lineage 
differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) during chronic viral 
infection to elucidate the changes in dendritic cell (DC) differentiation and 
subsequent impact on T cell functionality using a chronic lymphocytic 
choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection model. We first investigated the lineage 
differentiation of HSCs in the bone marrow (BM) to elucidate the modulation of 
immune cell differentiation and found that the populations highly restrained in 
their differentiation were common myeloid progenitors (CMPs) and common 
dendritic cell progenitors (CDPs). Of interest, the main immune cells infected 
with LCMV Clone 13 (CL13) in the BM were CD11b/c+ myeloid DCs. We next 
characterized CD11b+ DCs that differentiated during chronic LCMV infection. 
These DCs displayed a less immunogenic phenotype than DCs in naive or acutely 
infected mice, showing low expression of CD80 but high expression of PD-L1, 
B7-H4, IDO, TGF-β, and IL-10. Consequently, these CD11b+ DCs induced less 
effective CD8+ T cells and more Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) cells. Furthermore, 
CD11b+ DCs generated during CL13 infection could not induce effective CD8+ T 
cells specific to the antigens of newly invading pathogens. Our findings 
demonstrate that DCs generated from the BM during chronic viral infection cannot 
activate fully functional effector CD8+ T cells specific to newly incoming 
antigens as well as persistent antigens themselves, suggesting a potential cause 
of the functional alterations in the T cell immune response during chronic viral 
infection.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s12276-023-00991-5
PMCID: PMC10238507
PMID: 37121977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


474. Clin Cancer Res. 2023 Aug 15;29(16):3162-3171. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-23-0514.

Spatial Immunoprofiling of Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma Reveals B7-H4 Is a 
Therapeutic Target for Aggressive Tumors.

Sousa LG(1), McGrail DJ(2), Lazar Neto F(3), Li K(1), Marques-Piubelli ML(4), 
Ferri-Borgogno S(5), Dai H(6), Mitani Y(7), Spardy Burr N(8), Cooper ZA(9), 
Kinneer K(9), Cortez MA(10), Lin SY(6), Bell D(11), El Naggar A(7), Burks J(12), 
Ferrarotto R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(2)Lerner Research Institute, Center for Immunotherapy and Precision 
Immuno-Oncology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(3)Instituto do Cancer do Estado de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo University, Sao Paulo, 
Brazil.
(4)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(5)Department of Gynecologic Oncology and Reproductive Medicine, The University 
of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(6)Department of System Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(7)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas.
(8)Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma Research Foundation, Needham, Massachusetts.
(9)Oncology R&D, AstraZeneca, Gaithersburg, Maryland.
(10)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(11)Department of Pathology, City of Hope Comprehensive Cancer Center, Duarte, 
California.
(12)Department of Leukemia, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas.

PURPOSE: Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is a heterogeneous malignancy, and no 
effective systemic therapy exists for metastatic disease. We previously 
described two prognostic ACC molecular subtypes with distinct therapeutic 
vulnerabilities, ACC-I and ACC-II. In this study, we explored the ACC tumor 
microenvironment (TME) using RNA-sequencing and spatial biology to identify 
potential therapeutic targets.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Tumor samples from 62 ACC patients with available 
RNA-sequencing data that had been collected as part of previous studies were 
stained with a panel of 28 validated metal-tagged antibodies. Imaging mass 
cytometry (IMC) was performed using the Fluidigm Helios CyTOF instrument and 
analyzed with Visiopharm software. The B7-H4 antibody-drug conjugate AZD8205 was 
tested in ACC patient-derived xenografts (PDX).
RESULTS: RNA deconvolution revealed that most ACCs are immunologically "cold," 
with approximately 30% being "hot." ACC-I tumors with a poor prognosis harbored 
a higher density of immune cells; however, spatial analysis by IMC revealed that 
ACC-I immune cells were significantly restricted to the stroma, characterizing 
an immune-excluded TME. ACC-I tumors overexpressed the immune checkpoint B7-H4, 
and the degree of immune exclusion was directly correlated with B7-H4 expression 
levels, an independent predictor of poor survival. Two ACC-I/B7-H4-high PDXs 
obtained 90% complete responses to a single dose of AZD8205, but none were 
observed with isotype-conjugated payload or in an ACC-II/B7-H4 low PDX.
CONCLUSIONS: Spatial analysis revealed that ACC subtypes have distinct TMEs, 
with enrichment of ACC-I immune cells that are restricted to the stroma. B7-H4 
is highly expressed in poor-prognosis ACC-I subtype and is a potential 
therapeutic target.

©2023 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-23-0514
PMCID: PMC10526680
PMID: 37256648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Mol Cancer Ther. 2023 Sep 5;22(9):999-1012. doi:
10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-22-0786.

Discovery and Preclinical Characterization of XMT-1660, an Optimized 
B7-H4-Targeted Antibody-Drug Conjugate for the Treatment of Cancer.

Toader D(1), Fessler SP(1), Collins SD(1), Conlon PR(1), Bollu R(1), Catcott 
KC(1), Chin CN(1), Dirksen A(1), Du B(1), Duvall JR(1), Higgins S(1), Kozytska 
MV(1), Bellovoda K(1), Faircloth C(1), Lee D(1), Li F(2), Qin L(1), Routhier 
C(1), Shaw P(1), Stevenson CA(1), Wang J(1), Wongthida P(1), Ter-Ovanesyan E(1), 
Ditty E(1), Bradley SP(1), Xu L(1), Yin M(1), Yurkovetskiy AV(1), Mosher R(1), 
Damelin M(1), Lowinger TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Mersana Therapeutics, Inc., 840 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(2)Pheon Therapeutics, Cambridge MA 02139.

Antibody-drug conjugates (ADC) achieve targeted drug delivery to a tumor and 
have demonstrated clinical success in many tumor types. The activity and safety 
profile of an ADC depends on its construction: antibody, payload, linker, and 
conjugation method, as well as the number of payload drugs per antibody 
[drug-to-antibody ratio (DAR)]. To allow for ADC optimization for a given target 
antigen, we developed Dolasynthen (DS), a novel ADC platform based on the 
payload auristatin hydroxypropylamide, that enables precise DAR-ranging and 
site-specific conjugation. We used the new platform to optimize an ADC that 
targets B7-H4 (VTCN1), an immune-suppressive protein that is overexpressed in 
breast, ovarian, and endometrial cancers. XMT-1660 is a site-specific DS DAR 6 
ADC that induced complete tumor regressions in xenograft models of breast and 
ovarian cancer as well as in a syngeneic breast cancer model that is refractory 
to PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibition. In a panel of 28 breast cancer PDXs, 
XMT-1660 demonstrated activity that correlated with B7-H4 expression. XMT-1660 
has recently entered clinical development in a phase I study (NCT05377996) in 
patients with cancer.

©2023 The Authors; Published by the American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-22-0786
PMCID: PMC10477829
PMID: 37294948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Breast Cancer. 2023 Nov;30(6):1041-1053. doi: 10.1007/s12282-023-01498-7.
Epub  2023 Aug 29.

Immunohistological analysis of B7-H4, IDO1, and PD-L1 expression and tumor 
immune microenvironment based on triple-negative breast cancer subtypes.

Sanuki F(1), Mikami Y(1), Nishimura H(1), Fujita Y(1), Monobe Y(2), Nomura T(3), 
Taira N(3), Moriya T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Kawasaki Medical School, 577 Matsushima, Kurashiki, 
701-0192, Japan.
(2)Department of Pathology, Kawasaki Medical School General Medical Center, 
Okayama, Japan.
(3)Department of Breast and Thyroid Surgery, Kawasaki Medical School, Kurashiki, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Pathology, Kawasaki Medical School, 577 Matsushima, Kurashiki, 
701-0192, Japan. tmoriya@med.kawasaki-m.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: B7 homolog 4 (B7-H4) and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO1) are 
factors involved in the inhibition of antitumor activity and are new therapeutic 
targets for immune checkpoint therapy. Our study aimed to simultaneously 
investigate the interrelationship among B7-H4, IDO1 and programmed cell death 
ligand 1 (PD-L1) expression in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), including 
tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) and TNBC subtypes.
METHODS: Immunostaining for PD-L1, B7-H4, and IDO1 was performed on whole-slide 
sections of 119 cases of TNBC. The TIME was evaluated based on stromal tumor 
infiltrating lymphocytes (sTILs; %), pattern classification of TILs, 
tumor-stroma ratio (TSR), and tertiary lymphoid structure (TLS). TNBC subtypes 
were also determined by immunohistochemistry analysis of cytokeratin 5/6 and 
androgen receptor (AR) expression.
RESULTS: B7-H4 expression was significantly higher in cases with a combined 
positive score cutoff of 5 for PD-L1 (clone 28-8; p = 0.021), inflamed TIL 
pattern (p = 0.007), and TLS ≥ 4 (p = 0.006). B7-H4 expression was higher in 
case of CK5/6 ≥ 10 (p = 0.035). The H-scores of AR and B7-H4 were inversely 
correlated (ρ = - 0.509, p < 0.001). B7-H4 and IDO1 expression levels were 
inversely correlated in cases with AR < 10 (ρ = - 0.354, p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that considering the TIL pattern and TLS and 
identifying the expression of PD-L1 and the basal-like type are useful for 
estimating B7-H4 expression. In addition, luminal androgen receptor (LAR)-type 
is frequently deficient in B7-H4 expression. In non-LAR types, B7-H4 and IDO1 
expression are exclusive.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to The Japanese Breast Cancer 
Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-023-01498-7
PMID: 37642903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Metab Brain Dis. 2023 Dec;38(8):2563-2572. doi: 10.1007/s11011-023-01274-8.
Epub  2023 Sep 4.

Expression analysis of inhibitory B7 family members in Alzheimer's disease.

Sabaie H(#)(1), Tamimi P(#)(2), Gharesouran J(3), Salkhordeh Z(4), Asadi MR(1), 
Sharifi-Bonab M(1), Shirvani-Farsani Z(5), Taheri M(6)(7), Sayad A(8), Rezazadeh 
M(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Development Unit of Tabriz Valiasr Hospital, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)School of Medicine, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(4)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Kerman University of 
Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(5)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Faculty of Life Sciences and 
Technology, Shahid Beheshti University, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Institute of Human Genetics, Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany. 
rezazadehm@tbzmed.ac.ir.
(7)Urology and Nephrology Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. rezazadehm@tbzmed.ac.ir.
(8)Department of Medical Genetics, Loghman Hakim Hospital, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. ar.sayad@yahoo.com.
(9)Clinical Research Development Unit of Tabriz Valiasr Hospital, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. mohammad_823@yahoo.com.
(10)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. mohammad_823@yahoo.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a global health problem due to its complexity, which 
frequently makes the development of treatment methods extremely difficult. 
Therefore, new methodologies are necessary to investigate the pathophysiology of 
AD and to treat AD. The interaction of immune modulation and neurodegeneration 
has added new dimensions in current knowledge of AD etiology and offers an 
attractive opportunity for the discovery of novel biomarkers and therapies. 
Using quantitative polymerase chain reaction, we compared the expression levels 
of inhibitory B7 family members (B7-1, B7-2, B7-H1, B7-DC, B7-H3, B7-H4, B7-H5, 
B7-H7, and ILDR2), as immune regulators, in the peripheral blood of late-onset 
AD (LOAD) patients (n = 50) and healthy individuals (n = 50). The levels of 
B7-2, B7-H4, ILDR2, and B7-DC expression were significantly higher in-patient 
blood samples than in control blood samples. Furthermore, we discovered a 
substantial positive correlation between all gene expression levels. In 
addition, the current study indicated that ILDR2, B7-H4, B7-2, and B7-DC might 
serve as diagnostic biomarkers to identify LOAD patients from healthy persons. 
The present work provides additional evidence for the significance of inhibitory 
B7 family members to the etiology of LOAD.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-023-01274-8
PMID: 37665469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. J Immunother Cancer. 2023 Oct;11(10):e007572. doi: 10.1136/jitc-2023-007572.

SGN-B7H4V, an investigational vedotin ADC directed to the immune checkpoint 
ligand B7-H4, shows promising activity in preclinical models.

Gray E(1), Ulrich M(2), Epp A(2), Younan P(2), Sahetya D(2), Hensley K(2), 
Allred S(2), Huang LY(2), Hahn J(2), Gahnberg K(2), Treuting PM(2), Trueblood 
ES(2), Gosink JJ(2), Thurman R(2), Wo S(2), Spahr K(2), Haass EJ(2), Snead K(2), 
Miller D(2), Padilla M(2), Smith AJ(2), Frantz C(2), Schrum JP(2), Nazarenko 
N(2), Gardai SJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Seagen Inc, Bothell, Washington, USA egray@seagen.com.
(2)Seagen Inc, Bothell, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: SGN-B7H4V is a novel investigational vedotin antibody-drug conjugate 
(ADC) comprising a B7-H4-directed human monoclonal antibody conjugated to the 
cytotoxic payload monomethyl auristatin E (MMAE) via a protease-cleavable 
maleimidocaproyl valine citrulline (mc-vc) linker. This vedotin linker-payload 
system has been clinically validated in multiple Food and Drug Administration 
approved agents including brentuximab vedotin, enfortumab vedotin, and tisotumab 
vedotin. B7-H4 is an immune checkpoint ligand with elevated expression on a 
variety of solid tumors, including breast, ovarian, and endometrial tumors, and 
limited normal tissue expression. SGN-B7H4V is designed to induce direct 
cytotoxicity against target cells by binding to B7-H4 on the surface of target 
cells and releasing the cytotoxic payload MMAE upon internalization of the 
B7-H4/ADC complex.
METHODS: B7-H4 expression was characterized by immunohistochemistry across 
multiple solid tumor types. The ability of SGN-B7H4V to kill B7-H4-expressing 
tumor cells in vitro and in vivo in a variety of xenograft tumor models was also 
evaluated. Finally, the antitumor activity of SGN-B7H4V as monotherapy and in 
combination with an anti-programmed cell death-1 (PD-1) agent was evaluated 
using an immunocompetent murine B7-H4-expressing Renca tumor model.
RESULTS: Immunohistochemistry confirmed B7-H4 expression across multiple solid 
tumors, with the highest prevalence in breast, endometrial, and ovarian tumors. 
In vitro, SGN-B7H4V killed B7-H4-expressing tumor cells by MMAE-mediated direct 
cytotoxicity and antibody-mediated effector functions including 
antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity and antibody-dependent cellular 
phagocytosis. In vivo, SGN-B7H4V demonstrated strong antitumor activity in 
multiple xenograft models of breast and ovarian cancer, including xenograft 
tumors with heterogeneous B7-H4 expression, consistent with the ability of 
vedotin ADCs to elicit a bystander effect. In an immunocompetent murine 
B7-H4-expressing tumor model, SGN-B7H4V drove robust antitumor activity as a 
monotherapy that was enhanced when combined with an anti-PD-1 agent.
CONCLUSION: The immune checkpoint ligand B7-H4 is a promising molecular target 
expressed by multiple solid tumors. SGN-B7H4V demonstrates robust antitumor 
activity in preclinical models through multiple potential mechanisms. 
Altogether, these preclinical data support the evaluation of SGN-B7H4V as a 
monotherapy in the ongoing phase 1 study of SGN-B7H4V in advanced solid tumors 
(NCT05194072) and potential future clinical combinations with immunotherapies.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jitc-2023-007572
PMCID: PMC10551938
PMID: 37793853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: EG, MU, AE, PY, DS, KH, SA, 
L-YH, JH, KG, PMT, EST, JJG, RT, SW, KS, EJH, KSn, DM, MP, AJS, CF, JPS, NN, and 
SJG were employees of and had equity ownership in Seagen Inc. at the time of 
this work.


479. Breast Cancer Res. 2023 Oct 4;25(1):115. doi: 10.1186/s13058-023-01721-5.

The loss of B7-H4 expression in breast cancer cells escaping from T cell 
cytotoxicity contributes to epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition.

Zhou L(1)(2), Wu J(1)(2), Ruan M(1), Xiao Y(1), Lan H(1)(2), Wu Q(1), Yu 
CW(3)(4)(5), Zhang Q(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Immunotherapy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(2)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China.
(3)Institute of Immunotherapy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China. 
dcwyu@email.nchu.edu.tw.
(4)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China. 
dcwyu@email.nchu.edu.tw.
(5)Department of Statistics and Information Science, Fu Jen Catholic University, 
New Taipei City, Taiwan. dcwyu@email.nchu.edu.tw.
(6)Institute of Immunotherapy, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China. 
qiuyu.zhang@fjmu.edu.cn.
(7)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Fujian Medical University, Fuzhou, China. 
qiuyu.zhang@fjmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: B7 homology 4 (B7-H4), a potential target for cancer therapy, has 
been demonstrated to inhibit T cell cytotoxicity in the early stages of breast 
cancer. However, B7-H4 manipulating breast tumor immune microenvironment (TIME) 
in the tumor progression remains unknown.
METHODS: We engineered T cells with B7-H4-specific chimeric antigen receptors 
(CARs) and performed a T cell co-culture assay to characterize B7-H4 expression 
level in breast cancer cells escaping from T cell cytotoxicity. We generated 
B7-H4 knockout (KO) and overexpression (OE) breast cancer cells to determine the 
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness characteristics in vitro 
and in vivo, including tumor proliferation, migration, metastasis and 
chemoresistance. The Cancer Genome Atlas breast cancer database was accessed to 
investigate the correlation between B7-H4 expression levels and EMT 
characteristics in patients with breast cancer.
RESULTS: Our result found that B7-H4 expression level was significantly reduced 
in a subset of breast cancer cells that escaped from the cytotoxicity of B7-H4 
CAR-T cells. Compared with wild type cells, B7-H4 KO cells prompt EMT and 
stemness characteristics, including migration, invasion and metastasis, and OE 
cells vice versa. The increase in H3K27me3 in KO cells confirmed the epigenetic 
reprogramming of cancer stem cells. The IC50 of doxorubicin or oxaliplatin 
significantly increased in KO cells, which was in agreement with a decrease in 
OE cells. Moreover, a trend of downregulated B7-H4 from stage I to stage II 
breast cancer patients indicates that the low-expressing B7-H4 breast cancer 
cells escaping from TIME have spread to nearby breast lymph nodes in the cancer 
progression.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study illuminates the novel role of renouncing B7-H4 in breast 
cancer cells through immune escape, which contributes to EMT processes and 
provides new insights for breast cancer treatments.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s13058-023-01721-5
PMCID: PMC10548745
PMID: 37794509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


480. Biomed Environ Sci. 2023 Sep 20;36(9):814-825. doi: 10.3967/bes2023.074.

An Investigation of the Effects of B7-H4 Gene rs10754339 and miR-125a Gene 
rs12976445 on Cancer Susceptibility.

Jin YC(1), Dong LJ(1), Yang QY(2), Xiong WN(1), Wang WY(1), Feng XH(3), Yu W(4), 
Huang W(1), Chen BF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science and Technology, School of Chemistry, 
Chemical Engineering and Life Sciences, Wuhan University of Technology, Wuhan 
430081, Hubei, China.
(2)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of WUT-AMU, Wuhan University of 
Technology, Wuhan 430081, Hubei, China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Wuhan Xinzhou District People's Hospital, 
Wuhan 430400, Hubei, China.
(4)Department of Air Crew Service, School of Civil Aviation, Wuhan Business and 
Trade Vocational College, Wuhan 430062, Hubei, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effects of the B7-H4 gene rs10754339 and miR-125a 
gene rs12976445 on cancer susceptibility through a case-control study and 
meta-analysis.
METHODS: A total of 1,490 cancer patients (lung/gastric/liver/: 550/460/480) and 
800 controls were recruited in this case-control study. The meta-analysis was 
performed by pooling the data from previous related studies and the present 
study.
RESULTS: The results of this study showed that in the Hubei Han Chinese 
population, the rs10754339 gene was significantly associated with the risk of 
lung and gastric cancer but not liver cancer, and the rs12976445 gene was 
significantly associated with the risk of lung cancer but not liver or gastric 
cancer. The meta-analysis results indicated that rs10754339 and rs12976445 
contributed to cancer susceptibility in the Chinese population and also revealed 
a significant association between rs10754339 and breast cancer risk, as well as 
between rs12976445 and lung cancer risk.
CONCLUSION: The B7-H4 gene rs10754339 and miR-125a gene rs12976445 may be the 
potential genetic markers for cancer susceptibility in the Chinese population, 
which should be validated in future studies with larger sample sizes in other 
ethnic populations.

Copyright © 2023 The Editorial Board of Biomedical and Environmental Sciences. 
Published by China CDC. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3967/bes2023.074
PMID: 37803894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Immunology. 2024 Jan;171(1):104-116. doi: 10.1111/imm.13704. Epub 2023 Oct
9.

Unlocking the role of the B7-H4 polymorphism in psoriasis: Insights into 
methotrexate treatment outcomes: A prospective cohort study.

Wang B(1), Wang Z(2), Yang W(1), Han L(1), Huang Q(1), Yawalkar N(3), Zhang 
Z(1), Yao Y(4), Yan K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai 
Institute of Dermatology, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Transfusion Medicine, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital, University 
of Bern, Bern, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.

B7-H4 is a recently discovered member of B7 family that negatively regulates 
T-cell immunity, specifically Th1 and Th17 cell responses. However, its role in 
the pathogenesis of psoriasis has yet to be determined. This study aims to 
investigate the effect of B7-H4 polymorphism on the efficacy of methotrexate 
(MTX) and its mechanism in psoriasis. Four single nucleotide polymorphisms of 
B7-H4 were genotyped in 310 psoriatic patients who received 12-week MTX. The 
protein expression of B7-H4 in platelets was characterized using 
immunofluorescence staining, confocal laser scanning microscopy, and flow 
cytometry techniques. We found that GG genotype carriers of B7-H4 rs1935780 had 
a lower Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) 75 response rate and higher 
weight (p = 0.0245) and body mass index (p = 0.0185) than AA and AG genotype 
carriers. Multiple regression analysis showed that the PASI score at baseline 
(p = 0.01) and age at disease onset (p = 0.003) were positively correlated with 
PASI 75 response rate, while weight (p = 0.005) and the rs1935780 genotype 
(p = 0.003) were negatively associated with PASI 75 response rate. B7-H4 was 
expressed in the platelet plasma membrane and cytoplasm. Furthermore, the 
expression of B7-H4 protein in platelets was lower in good responders than in 
non-responders and was upregulated considerably after 12-week MTX or in vitro 
MTX stimulation in good responders. Collectively, these results demonstrate that 
psoriatic patients with GG genotype of B7-H4 rs1935780 had a poorer response to 
MTX. Low expression of B7-H4 protein in platelets correlated with better 
clinical outcomes of MTX in psoriasis.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/imm.13704
PMID: 37814391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Transl Oncol. 2024 Jan;39:101793. doi: 10.1016/j.tranon.2023.101793. Epub
2023  Oct 14.

The co-inhibitory immune checkpoint proteins B7-H1(PD-L1) and B7-H4 in high 
grade glioma: From bench to bedside.

Qi Y(1), Huang X(1), Ji C(1), Wang C(2), Yao Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China; National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Shanghai, China; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Brain Function and Restoration and 
Neural Regeneration, Shanghai, China; Immunology Laboratory, Neurosurgical 
Institute of Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Clinical Medical Center 
of Neurosurgery, Shanghai, China.
(2)MSD China Holding Co.,Ltd, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: 
chao.jun.wang@merck.com.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Huashan Hospital, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China; National Center for Neurological Disorders, 
Shanghai, China; Shanghai Key Laboratory of Brain Function and Restoration and 
Neural Regeneration, Shanghai, China; Immunology Laboratory, Neurosurgical 
Institute of Fudan University, Shanghai, China; Shanghai Clinical Medical Center 
of Neurosurgery, Shanghai, China. Electronic address: yu_yao@fudan.edu.cn.

Co-inhibitory immune checkpoints play a crucial role in tumor progression, and 
PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor has been a breakthrough for treating multiple refractory 
tumors in last decade. Nevertheless, results of several phase III clinical 
trials of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor are unsatisfactory in high grade gliomas 
recently. This article reviews the promising biomarkers which can predict the 
efficacy of PD-1/PD-L1 blockade immunotherapy and current status of emerging 
strategies involving PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors, especially the combination treatment 
and neoadjuvant PD-1 therapy in gliomas. In addition, B7-H4, one of the most 
promising immune checkpoints, is also briefly reviewed here for its clinical 
significance, regulatory mechanism and developing immunotherapeutic strategies 
in pre-clinical glioma models.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tranon.2023.101793
PMCID: PMC10587763
PMID: 37844479

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


483. Ginekol Pol. 2023 Oct 24. doi: 10.5603/gpl.96605. Online ahead of print.

Expression of B7-H4 in endometrial cancer and its impact on patients' prognosis.

Gorzelnik K(1), Wasaznik-Jedras A(2), Wicherek L(3), Szubert S(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, Warsaw, Poland. 
gorzelnik.katarzyna@gmail.com.
(2)National Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior and Administration in 
Warsaw, Poland, Pathomorphology Department, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Division of Gynaecological Oncology, Department of Gynaecology, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, Poland, 33 Polna St, 60-535 Poznań, 
Poland.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to evaluate the B7-H4 expression in 
endometrial cancer cells and to investigate its relationship with patient 
prognosis and clinicopathological features of the disease.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We performed a single-center, retrospective cohort study 
that included endometrial cancer patients treated between 2012 and 2019. B7-H4 
expression in specimens obtained from 63 patients was examined by 
immunohistochemical staining. The evaluation of B7H4 immunoreactivity was 
assessed using Immunoreactivity Scoring (IRS) system.
RESULTS: B7-H4 reactivity was observed in all, except one, endometrial cancer 
patients (98%). Staining intensity: no reaction in one case, weak in 16 (24%) 
patients, moderate in 25 (37%), and strong in 22 (35%). Twenty-nine (46%) 
patients showed B7-H4 immunoreactivity in more than 60% of cells, while, in 18 
(29%) cases and 16 (25%) patients, the percentages were 30-60% and < 30% 
respectively. Median IRS was 2 (range 0-6). We found a significantly worse 
overall survival (OS) rate for patients with high versus low B7-H4 IRS (p = 
0.03), however, in multivariate analysis, the difference in patient survival was 
close to the significance level (p = 0.052). B7-H4 expression was not related to 
histopathological type of the tumor, tumor grade, lymph node metastases, or the 
FIGO stage of the disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Our result suggests that B7-H4 expression might be a useful 
prognostic factor in endometrial cancer.

DOI: 10.5603/gpl.96605
PMID: 37873922


484. Clin Cancer Res. 2023 Oct 26. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-23-1079. Online
ahead  of print.

A B7-H4 targeting antibody-drug conjugate shows anti-tumor activity in PARPi and 
platinum resistant cancers with B7-H4 expression.

Gitto SB(1), Whicker M(1), Davies G(2), Kumar S(1), Kinneer K(3), Xu H(1), Lewis 
A(4), Mamidi S(2), Medvedev S(1), Kim H(5), Anderton J(6), Tang EJ(1), Ferman 
B(1), Coats S(7), Wilkinson RW(4), Brown E(8), Powell DJ(1), Simpkins F(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, United States.
(2)AstraZeneca, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(3)AstraZeneca (United States), Gaithersburg, MD, United States.
(4)AstraZeneca (United Kingdom), Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(5)University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, 
United States.
(6)MedImmune Ltd, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(7)ImmunOs Therapeutics, Gaithersburg, MD, United States.
(8)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA, United 
States.

PURPOSE: Platinum and PARP inhibitors (PARPi) demonstrate activity in breast and 
ovarian cancers, but drug resistance ultimately emerges. Here we examine B7-H4 
expression in primary and recurrent high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) 
and the activity of a B7-H4-directed antibody-drug conjugate (B7-H4-ADC), using 
a pyrrolobenzodiazepine-dimer payload, in PARPi- and platinum-resistant HGSOC 
patient derived xenograft (PDX) models.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: B7-H4 expression was quantified by flow cytometry and 
immunohistochemistry. B7-H4-ADC efficacy was tested against multiple cell lines 
in vitro and PDX in vivo. The effect of B7-H4-ADC on cell cycle, DNA damage, and 
apoptosis was measured using flow cytometry.
RESULTS: B7-H4 is over-expressed in 92% of HGSOC tumors at diagnosis (n=12), 
persisted in recurrent matched samples after platinum treatment, and was 
expressed at similar levels across metastatic sites after acquired multi-drug 
resistance (n=4). Treatment with B7-H4-ADC resulted in target-specific growth 
inhibition of multiple ovarian and breast cancer cell lines. In platinum- or 
PARPi-resistant ovarian cancer cells, B7-H4-ADC significantly decreased 
viability and colony formation while increasing cell cycle arrest and DNA 
damage, ultimately leading to apoptosis. Single-dose B7-H4-ADC led to tumor 
regression in 65.5% of breast and ovarian PDX models (n=29), with reduced 
activity in B7-H4 low or negative models. In PARPi and platinum resistant HGSOC 
PDX models, scheduled B7-H4-ADC dosing led to sustained tumor regression and 
increased survival.
CONCLUSIONS: These data support B7-H4 as an attractive ADC target for treatment 
of drug-resistant HGSOC and provide evidence for activity of an ADC with a 
DNA-damaging payload in this population.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-23-1079
PMID: 37882675


485. Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2023 Oct 31;21(1):104. doi:
10.1186/s12958-023-01158-7.

Correction: Mifepristone inhibited the expression of B7-H2, B7-H3, B7-H4 and 
PD-L2 in adenomyosis.

Qin X(1), Sun W(1), Wang C(2), Li M(1), Zhao X(3), Li C(1), Zhang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Shandong Provincial Hospital 
Affiliated to Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, Shandong, 250021, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Surgery, Shandong Rongjun General Hospital, Jinan, Shandong, 
250013, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, 250000, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Shandong Provincial Hospital 
Affiliated to Shandong First Medical University, Jinan, Shandong, 250021, 
People's Republic of China. huizhang1218@126.com.

Erratum for
    Reprod Biol Endocrinol. 2021 Jul 21;19(1):114.

DOI: 10.1186/s12958-023-01158-7
PMCID: PMC10617174
PMID: 37907948


486. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2024 Jan;50(1):55-64. doi: 10.1111/jog.15821. Epub
2023  Nov 1.

An analysis of placental chorionic villous and decidual basalis tissue 
immunoreactivity in patients after cesarean section due to a placenta accreta 
spectrum disorder and elective cesarean section followed by the depressed mood.

Dutsch-Wicherek MM(1), Bączkowska M(2), Knafel A(2), Sadowski P(3), Gałązka 
K(3), Lew-Starowicz M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Centre of Postgraduate Medical Education, Warsaw, 
Poland.
(2)2nd Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Centre of Postgraduate Medical 
Education, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Pathomorphology, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 
Krakow, Poland.

An analysis of placental chorionic villous and decidual basalis tissue 
immunoreactivity in patients after cesarean section due to a placenta accreta 
spectrum disorder and elective cesarean section followed by a depressed mood.
RESEARCH BACKGROUND: Over the past few years, interest in investigating immune 
dysfunction in patients with psychiatric disorders has increased. B7-H4 is a 
molecule with immunosuppressive properties that seems to play a key role in 
establishing maternal tolerance against fetal antigens. The aim of this study 
was to compare the B7-H4 immunoreactivity levels in patients after cesarean 
section.
METHODS: Placental and decidual tissue samples were obtained from 49 women who 
delivered at Bielański Hospital in Warsaw between 2009 and 2015. Fifteen of the 
patients developed postpartum depression and 14 had a diagnosis of placenta 
accreta spectrum. The control group consisted of 20 healthy patients on whom 
cesarean section was performed due to breech presentation at term.
RESULTS: The highest levels of B7-H4 immunoreactivity were found in the 
placental chorionic villous and decidual basalis tissue samples of the patients 
who later developed postpartum depression, while the lowest levels were found in 
the samples of those patients with a placenta accreta spectrum disorder. The 
difference between the B7-H4 immunoreactivity levels of these two groups was 
statistically significant. The B7-H4 expression levels were statistically 
significantly higher in the women in the postpartum depression group than in the 
control group.
CONCLUSION: Postpartum depression follows a disturbance of the suppressive 
milieu responsible for rebalancing the maternal immune system after the initial 
cytotoxic activation during labor.

© 2023 Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1111/jog.15821
PMID: 37909688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Mod Pathol. 2023 Oct 28;37(1):100371. doi: 10.1016/j.modpat.2023.100371.
Online  ahead of print.

Analysis of B7-H4 Expression Across Salivary Gland Carcinomas Reveals Adenoid 
Cystic Carcinoma-Specific Prognostic Relevance.

Siqueira JM(1), Mitani Y(2), Hoff CO(3), Bonini F(3), Guimaraes de Sousa L(3), 
Marques-Piubelli ML(4), Purushothaman A(3), Mitani M(3), Dai H(5), Lin SY(5), 
Spiotto MT(6), Hanna EY(7), McGrail DJ(8), El-Naggar AK(2), Ferrarotto R(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas; Department of Stomatology, 
Discipline of Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology, School of Dentistry, University 
of São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas.
(3)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(4)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(5)Department of Systems Biology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(6)Department of Radiation Oncology, Division of Radiation Oncology, The 
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(7)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Division of Surgery, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas.
(8)Center for Immunotherapy and Precision Immuno-Oncology, Lerner Research 
Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(9)Department of Thoracic/Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas. Electronic address: 
rferrarotto@mdanderson.org.

B7-H4 (VTCN1), a member of the B7 family, is overexpressed in several types of 
cancer. Here we investigated the pattern of expression of B7-H4 in salivary 
gland carcinomas (SGC) and assessed its potential as a prognostic marker and 
therapeutic target. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) analyses were performed in a 
cohort of 340 patient tumors, composed of 124 adenoid cystic carcinomas (ACC), 
107 salivary duct carcinomas (SDC), 64 acinic cell carcinomas, 36 mucoepidermoid 
carcinomas (MEC), 9 secretory carcinomas (SC), as well as 20 normal salivary 
glands (controls). B7-H4 expression was scored and categorized into negative 
(<5% expression of any intensity), low (5%-70% expression of any intensity or 
>70% with weak intensity), or high (>70% moderate or strong diffuse intensity). 
The associations between B7-H4 expression and clinicopathologic characteristics, 
as well as overall survival, were assessed. Among all tumors, B7-H4 expression 
was more prevalent in ACC (94%) compared with those of SC (67%), MEC (44%), SDC 
(32%), and acinic cell carcinomas (0%). Normal salivary gland tissue did not 
express B7-H4. High expression of B7-H4 was found exclusively in ACC (27%), SDC 
(11%), and MEC (8%). In SDC, B7-H4 expression was associated with female gender 
(P = .002) and lack of androgen receptor expression (P = .012). In ACC, B7-H4 
expression was significantly associated with solid histology (P < .0001) and 
minor salivary gland primary (P = .02). High B7-H4 expression was associated 
with a poorer prognosis in ACC, regardless of clinical stage and histologic 
subtype. B7-H4 expression was not prognostic in the non-ACC SGC evaluated. Our 
comparative study revealed distinct patterns of B7-H4 expression according to 
SGC histology, which has potential therapeutic implications. B7-H4 expression 
was particularly high in solid ACC and was an independent prognostic marker in 
this disease but not in the other SGC assessed.

Copyright © 2023 United States & Canadian Academy of Pathology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.modpat.2023.100371
PMID: 38015043


488. Immunotargets Ther. 2023 Nov 24;12:149-163. doi: 10.2147/ITT.S434403. 
eCollection 2023.

The Methylation in B7-H4 and BTLA Genes are Associated with the Risk of 
Pulmonary Tuberculosis.

Cai XQ(#)(1), Huang Q(#)(2), Zhang TP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Anhui Chest Hospital, 
Hefei, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Public Health, Medical Department, Qinghai University, Xining, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Division of Life Sciences and 
Medicine, University of Science and Technology of China, Hefei, Anhui, People's 
Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The important roles of B7 homologous body 4 (B7-H4), B and T 
lymphocyte attenuator (BTLA) in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) have 
been reported. This study aims to evaluate the association among B7-H4 and BTLA 
genes polymorphism, methylation and PTB susceptibility.
METHODOLOGY: Here, we assessed the possible relationship of 10 single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) in B7-H4, BTLA genes with PTB susceptibility in a Chinese 
population (496 PTB patients and 502 controls) by SNPscan technique. Then, the 
B7-H4, BTLA genes methylation levels among 98 PTB patients and 97 controls were 
detected using MethylTarget technique.
RESULTS: This study found no significant differences in allele and genotype 
frequencies of B7-H4 gene rs10754339, rs10801935, rs10923223, rs1937956, 
rs3738414, BTLA gene rs1982809, rs2971205, rs75368388, rs9288953 variants 
between PTB patients and controls. Haplotype analysis suggested that the lower 
frequencies of B7-H4 AATTG haplotype, BTLA GATT haplotype and the higher 
frequency of BTLA AGTC haplotype were found in PTB patients when compared with 
controls. We also found that the frequency of BTLA gene rs9288953 C allele was 
significantly increased in PTB patients with drug resistance. Moreover, the 
methylation levels of B7-H4 and BTLA genes in PTB patients were greater than 
that in controls, and rs10754339 variant in B7-H4 gene could affect its 
methylation level in PTB patients.
CONCLUSION: B7-H4, BTLA genes polymorphism might not affect PTB susceptibility, 
while the abnormal methylation levels of B7-H4, BTLA genes were associated with 
the genetic background of PTB.

© 2023 Cai et al.

DOI: 10.2147/ITT.S434403
PMCID: PMC10683667
PMID: 38033484

Conflict of interest statement: Xue-Qian Cai and Qian Huang are co-first authors 
for this study. The authors report no conflicts of interest in this work.


489. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2023 Dec;31(6):1797-1803. doi: 
10.19746/j.cnki.issn.1009-2137.2023.06.030.

[Effect of miR-125b on T Cell Activation in Aplastic Anemia by Targetting 
B7-H4].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Liu X(1), Wang XX(2), Sun HK(1), Gao N(1), Liu ZY(1), Liu XD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Binzhou Medical University Hospital, Binzhou 
256603, Shandong Province, China.
(2)Department of Hematology, Binzhou Medical University Hospital, Binzhou 
256603, Shandong Province, China.E-mail: wxx-1008@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of miR-125b on T cell activation in 
patients with aplastic anemia (AA) and its molecular mechanism.
METHODS: A total of 30 AA patients were enrolled in department of hematology, 
Binzhou Medical University Hospital from January 2018 to October 2021, as well 
as 15 healthy individuals as healthy control (HC) group. Peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated, in which the levels of miR-125b and 
B7-H4 mRNA were detected by RT-qPCR. Immunomagnetic beads were used to separate 
naive T cells and non-naive T cells from AA patients and healthy people to 
detect the levels of miR-125b and B7-H4 mRNA. Lentivirus LV-NC inhibitor and 
LV-miR-125b inhibitor were transfected into cells, and T cell activation was 
detected by flow cytometry. The dual-luciferase reporter gene assay was used to 
detect the targetting relationship between miR-125b and B7-H4. RT-qPCR and 
Western blot were used to detect the levels of miR-125b, CD40L, ICOS, IL-10 mRNA 
and B7-H4 protein.
RESULTS: Compared with HC group, the expression of miR-125b was up-regulated but 
B7-H4 mRNA was down-regulated in PBMCs of AA patients (P <0.05), and the 
proportions of CD4+CD69+ T cells and CD8+CD69+ T cells in PBMCs of AA patients 
were higher (P <0.05). The expression of miR-125b was significantly up-regulated 
but B7-H4 mRNA was down-regulated in both naive T cells and non-naive T cells of 
AA patients (P <0.05), and non-naive T cells was more significant than naive T 
cells (P <0.05). Compared with NC inhibitor group, the expression of miR-125b 
was significantly decreased, the expression level of CD69 on CD4+ and CD8+ T 
cells in PBMCs was also significantly decreased, while the luciferase activity 
was significantly increased after co-transfection of miR-125b inhibitor and 
B7-H4-3'UTR-WT in the miR-125b inhibitor group (P <0.05). Compared with NC 
inhibitor group, the mRNA and protein levels of B7-H4 were significantly 
increased in the miR-125b inhibitor group (P <0.05). Compared with miR-125b 
inhibitor+shRNA group, the expression levels of CD69 on CD4+ and CD8+ T cells 
were significantly increased, and the levels of CD40L, ICOS and IL-10 mRNA were 
also significantly increased in the miR-125b inhibitor+sh-B7-H4 group (P <0.05).
CONCLUSION: MiR-125b may promote T cell activation by targetting B7-H4 in AA 
patients.

Publisher: 题目: miR-125b通过靶向B7-H4对再生障碍性贫血T细胞活化的影响.
目的: 探讨miR-125b在再生障碍性贫血（AA）患者T细胞活化中的作用及分子机制。.
方法: 
纳入山东省滨州医学院附属医院从2018年1月至2021年10月30例AA患者，15名健康个体作为健康对照（HC）组，分离外周血单个核细胞（PBMC），RT-qPCR检测PBMC中miR-125b、B7-H4 
mRNA的水平。免疫磁珠分选AA患者和健康对照者naive T细胞和non-naive T细胞，检测miR-125b、B7-H4 
mRNA的水平。转染慢病毒LV-NC inhibitor、LV-miR-125b 
inhibitor至细胞中，流式细胞术检测T细胞活化。双荧光素酶报告基因实验检测miR-125b和B7-H4之间的靶向关系。RT-qPCR和Western 
blot检测miR-125b、CD40L、ICOS、IL-10 mRNA和B7-H4蛋白的水平。.
结果: 与HC组比较，AA患者PBMC中miR-125b表达上调（P <0.05），B7-H4 mRNA表达下调（P 
<0.05），CD4+CD69+T细胞和CD8+CD69+ T细胞比例较高（P <0.05）。AA患者的naive T细胞和non-naive 
T细胞中miR-125b的表达均显著上调，B7-H4 mRNA表达下调（P <0.05），且non-naive T细胞较naive T细胞更明显（P 
<0.05）。与NC inhibitor组比较，miR-125b inhibitor组中miR-125b的表达显著降低（P 
<0.05），PBMC中CD4+和CD8+ T细胞上CD69的表达水平显著降低（P <0.05），miR-125b 
inhibitor和B7-H4-3′UTR-WT共转染后荧光素酶活性显著升高（P <0.05）。与NC inhibitor组比较，miR-125b 
inhibitor组细胞中B7-H4 mRNA和蛋白水平显著升高（P <0.05）。与miR-125b inhibitor+shRNA组比较，miR-125b 
inhibitor+sh-B7-H4组CD4+和CD8+ T细胞上的CD69表达水平显著升高（P <0.05），CD40L、ICOS和IL-10 
mRNA水平亦显著升高（P <0.05）。.
结论: miR-125b可能通过靶向B7-H4促进AA患者T细胞活化。.

DOI: 10.19746/j.cnki.issn.1009-2137.2023.06.030
PMID: 38071063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Heliyon. 2023 Dec 2;9(12):e23171. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e23171. 
eCollection 2023 Dec.

Alternative immune checkpoints in immunoregulatory profile of cancer stem cells.

Mortezaee K(1), Majidpoor J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Kurdistan University of Medical 
Sciences, Sanandaj, Iran.
(2)Department of Anatomy, School of Medicine, Infectious Diseases Research 
Center, Gonabad University of Medical Sciences, Gonabad, Iran.

Tumor-mediated bypass of immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) therapy with 
anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1), anti-programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1, also 
called B7-H1 or CD274) or anti-cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated antigen-4 
(CTLA-4) is a challenge of current years in the area of cancer immunotherapy. 
Alternative immune checkpoints (AICs) are molecules beyond the common PD-1, 
PD-L1 or CTLA-4, and are upregulated in patients who show low/no ICI responses. 
These are members of B7 family including B7-H2 (ICOS-L), B7-H3 (CD276), B7-H4 
(B7x), V-domain immunoglobulin suppressor of T cell activation (VISTA), B7-H6, 
HHLA2 (B7-H5/B7-H7) and catabolic enzymes like indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 
(IDO1), and others that are also contributed to the regulation of tumor immune 
microenvironment (TIME). There is also strong evidence supporting the 
implication of AICs in regulation of cancer stemness and expanding the 
population of cancer stem cells (CSCs). CSCs display immunoregulatory capacity 
and represent multiple immune checkpoints either on their surface or inside. 
Besides, they are active promoters of resistance to the common ICIs. The aim of 
this review is to investigate interrelations between AICs with stemness and 
differentiation profile of cancer. The key message of this paper is that 
targeted checkpoints can be selected based on their impact on CSCs along with 
their effect on immune cells. Studies published so far mainly focused on immune 
cells as a target for anti-checkpoints. Ex vivo engineering of extracellular 
vesicles (EVs) equipped with CSC-targeted anti-checkpoint antibodies is without 
a doubt a key therapeutic target that can be under consideration in future 
research.

© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e23171
PMCID: PMC10746460
PMID: 38144305

Conflict of interest statement: The manuscript entitled ‘Alternative immune 
checkpoints in immunoregulatory profile of cancer stem cells’ is the 
representative of novel insights toward the impact of alternative immune 
checkpoints in cancer stemness profile and using the strategy in improving 
cancer immunotherapy outcomes. All figures are originally stated and the idea is 
novel, and both authors are contributed significantly to the subject.


491. bioRxiv. 2023 Dec 23:2023.12.21.572867. doi: 10.1101/2023.12.21.572867. 
Preprint.

Spatial analysis of NOS2 and COX2 interaction with T-effector cells reveals 
immunosuppressive landscapes associated with poor outcome in ER- breast cancer 
patients.

Ridnour LA(1), Cheng RYS(1), Heinz WF(2), Pore M(3), Gonzalez AL(1), Femino 
EL(1), Moffat R(2), Wink AL(2), Imtiaz F(2), Coutinho L(1)(4), Butcher D(5), 
Edmondson EF(5), Rangel MC(4), Wong STC(6), Lipkowitz S(7), Glynn S(8), Vitek 
MP(9), McVicar DW(1), Li X(10), Anderson SK(1)(11), Paolocci N(12)(13), Hewitt 
SM(14), Ambs S(15), Billiar TR(16), Chang 
JC(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12)(13)(14)(15)(16), Lockett SJ(2), Wink 
DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Innovation Laboratory, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Frederick, MD.
(2)Optical Microscopy and Analysis Laboratory, Frederick National Laboratory for 
Cancer Research; Leidos Biomedical Research Inc. for the National Cancer 
Institute, Frederick, MD.
(3)Imaging Mass Cytometry Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research.
(4)Faculdade de Medicina da Universidade de São Paulo and Comprehensive Center 
for Precision Oncology, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(5)Molecular Histopathology Laboratories, Leidos Biomedical Research Inc. for 
the National Cancer Institute.
(6)Houston Methodist Weill Cornell Medical College, Houston TX.
(7)Women's Malignancies Branch, CCR, NCI, NIH.
(8)Discipline of Pathology, Lambe Institute for Translational Research, School 
of Medicine, University of Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(9)(Mike Duke).
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, 
GA.
(11)Basic Science Program, Frederick National Laboratory for Cancer Research.
(12)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, 
and Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Padova, Italy.
(13)Laboratory of Pathology CCR, NCI, NIH.
(14)Laboratory of Human Carcinogenesis, CCR, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD.
(15)Department of Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, 
PA.
(16)Mary and Ron Neal Cancer Center, Houston Methodist Hospital and Weill 
Cornell Medicine, Houston, TX.

Multiple immunosuppressive mechanisms exist in the tumor microenvironment that 
drive poor outcomes and decrease treatment efficacy. The co-expression of NOS2 
and COX2 is a strong predictor of poor prognosis in ER- breast cancer and other 
malignancies. Together, they generate pro-oncogenic signals that drive 
metastasis, drug resistance, cancer stemness, and immune suppression. Using an 
ER- breast cancer patient cohort, we found that the spatial expression patterns 
of NOS2 and COX2 with CD3+CD8+PD1- T effector (Teff) cells formed a tumor immune 
landscape that correlated with poor outcome. NOS2 was primarily associated with 
the tumor-immune interface, whereas COX2 was associated with immune desert 
regions of the tumor lacking Teff cells. A higher ratio of NOS2 or COX2 to Teff 
was highly correlated with poor outcomes. Spatial analysis revealed that 
regional clustering of NOS2 and COX2 was associated with stromal-restricted 
Teff, while only COX2 was predominant in immune deserts. Examination of other 
immunosuppressive elements, such as PDL1/PD1, Treg, B7H4, and IDO1, revealed 
that PDL1/PD1, Treg, and IDO1 were primarily associated with restricted Teff, 
whereas B7H4 and COX2 were found in tumor immune deserts. Regardless of the 
survival outcome, other leukocytes, such as CD4 T cells and macrophages, were 
primarily in stromal lymphoid aggregates. Finally, in a 4T1 model, COX2 
inhibition led to a massive cell infiltration, thus validating the hypothesis 
that COX2 is an essential component of the Teff exclusion process and, thus, 
tumor evasion. Our study indicates that NOS2/COX2 expression plays a central 
role in tumor immunosuppression. Our findings indicate that new strategies 
combining clinically available NOS2/COX2 inhibitors with various forms of immune 
therapy may open a new avenue for the treatment of aggressive ER-breast cancers.

DOI: 10.1101/2023.12.21.572867
PMCID: PMC10769421
PMID: 38187660


492. Immunogenetics. 2024 Jan 10. doi: 10.1007/s00251-023-01327-3. Online ahead
of  print.

Costimulatory receptors in the channel catfish: CD28 family members and their 
ligands.

Quiniou SMA(1), Bengtén E(2)(3), Boudinot P(4).

Author information:
(1)USDA-ARS-WARU, 141 Experiment Station Rd, 38776, Stoneville, MS, USA. 
sylvie.quiniou@usda.gov.
(2)Center for Immunology and Microbial Research, University of Mississippi 
Medical Center, 39216, Jackson, MS, USA.
(3)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, University of Mississippi Medical 
Center, 39216, Jackson, MS, USA.
(4)Université Paris-Saclay, INRAE, UVSQ, VIM, Jouy-en-Josas, 78350, France. 
pierre.boudinot@inrae.fr.

The CD28-B7 interaction is required to deliver a second signal necessary for 
T-cell activation. Additional membrane receptors of the CD28 and B7 families are 
also involved in immune checkpoints that positively or negatively regulate 
leukocyte activation, in particular T lymphocytes. BTLA is an inhibitory 
receptor that belongs to a third receptor family. Fish orthologs exist only for 
some of these genes, and the potential interactions between the corresponding 
ligands remain mostly unclear. In this work, we focused on the channel catfish 
(Ictalurus punctatus), a long-standing model for fish immunology, to analyze 
these co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory receptors. We identified one copy of 
cd28, ctla4, cd80/86, b7h1/dc, b7h3, b7h4, b7h5, two btla, and four b7h7 genes. 
Catfish CD28 contains the highly conserved mammalian cytoplasmic motif for PI3K 
and GRB2 recruitment, however this motif is absent in cyprinids. Fish CTLA4 
share a C-terminal putative GRB2-binding site but lacks the mammalian 
PI3K/GRB2-binding motif. While critical V-domain residues for human CD80 or CD86 
binding to CD28/CTLA4 show low conservation in fish CD80/86, C-domain residues 
are highly conserved, underscoring their significance. Catfish B7H1/DC had a 
long intracytoplasmic domain with a P-loop-NTPase domain that is absent in 
mammalian sequences, while the lack of NLS motif in fish B7H4 suggests this 
protein may not regulate cell growth when expressed intracellularly. Finally, 
there is a notable expansion of fish B7H7s, which likely play diverse roles in 
leukocyte regulation. Overall, our work contributes to a better understanding of 
fish leukocyte co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory receptors.

© 2024. This is a U.S. Government work and not under copyright protection in the 
US; foreign copyright protection may apply.

DOI: 10.1007/s00251-023-01327-3
PMID: 38197898


493. Biosens Bioelectron. 2024 Jan 1;249:115984. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2023.115984.
 Online ahead of print.

A mesoporous gold biosensor to investigate immune checkpoint protein 
heterogeneity in single lung cancer cells.

Ahmed E(1), Masud MK(2), Komatineni P(1), Dey S(1), Lobb R(1), Hossain MSA(3), 
Möller A(4), Yamauchi Y(5), Sina AA(6), Trau M(7).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Personalised Nanomedicine, Australian Institute for Bioengineering 
and Nanotechnology (AIBN), Corner College and Cooper Roads (Bldg 75), The 
University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, Australia.
(2)Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (AIBN), Corner 
College and Cooper Roads (Bldg 75), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
4072, Australia.
(3)Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (AIBN), Corner 
College and Cooper Roads (Bldg 75), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
4072, Australia; School of Mechanical and Mining Engineering, Faculty of 
Engineering, Architecture and Information Technology (EAIT), The University of 
Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, Australia.
(4)Tumour Microenvironment Laboratory, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research 
Institute, Herston, Queensland, 4006, Australia; Department of 
Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(5)Australian Institute for Bioengineering and Nanotechnology (AIBN), Corner 
College and Cooper Roads (Bldg 75), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
4072, Australia; Department of Materials Process Engineering, Graduate School of 
Engineering, Nagoya University, Nagoya, 464-8603, Japan.
(6)Centre for Personalised Nanomedicine, Australian Institute for Bioengineering 
and Nanotechnology (AIBN), Corner College and Cooper Roads (Bldg 75), The 
University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, Australia. Electronic address: 
a.sina@uq.edu.au.
(7)Centre for Personalised Nanomedicine, Australian Institute for Bioengineering 
and Nanotechnology (AIBN), Corner College and Cooper Roads (Bldg 75), The 
University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, Australia; School of Chemistry 
and Molecular Biosciences, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 4072, 
Australia. Electronic address: m.trau@uq.edu.au.

Immune checkpoint proteins (ICPs) play a major role in a patient's immune 
response against cancer. Tumour cells usually express those proteins to 
communicate with immune cells as a process of escaping the anti-cancer immune 
response. Detecting the major functional immune checkpoint proteins present on 
cancer cells (such as circulating tumor cells or CTCs) and examining the 
heterogeneity in their expression at the single-cell level could play a crucial 
role in both cancer diagnosis and the monitoring of therapy. In this study, we 
develop a mesoporous gold biosensor to precisely assess ICP heterogeneity in 
individual cancer cells within a lung cancer model. The platform utilizes a 
nanostructured mesoporous gold surface to capture CTCs and a Surface Enhanced 
Raman Scattering (SERS) readout to identify and monitor the expression of key 
ICP proteins (PD-L1, B7H4, CD276, CD80) in lung cancer cells. The homogeneous 
and abundant pores in mesoporous 3D gold nanostructures enable increased 
antibody loading on-chip and an enhanced SERS signal, which are key to our 
single cell capture, and accurate analysis of ICPs in cancer cells with high 
sensitivity. Our lung cancer cell line model data showed that our method can 
detect single cells and analyse the expression of four lung cancer associated 
ICPs on individual cell surfaces during treatment. To show the potential of our 
mesoporous gold biosensor in analysing clinical samples, we tested 9 
longitudinal Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMC) samples from lung cancer 
patient before and after therapy. Our mesoporous biosensor successfully captured 
single CTCs and found that the expression of ICPs in CTCs is highly 
heterogeneous in both pre-treatment and treated PBMC samples isolated from lung 
cancer patient blood. We suggest that our findings will help clinicians in 
selecting the most appropriate therapy for patients.

Copyright © 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2023.115984
PMID: 38219464

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.
