1. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1979 Sep;36(10):1047-54. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1979.01780100017001.

The form of early development. Continuity and discontinuity in emergent 
competences.

Kagan J.

Conceptions of psychological development devised by Western theorists have 
assumed connectivity of stages, stability of acquired structures, and continuity 
of process, and have resisted the possibility that some emerging psychological 
qualities might have relatively short histories. Empirical studies of the first 
two years of life suggest that the enhancement of retrieval memory at 8 to 10 
months of age, the emergence of a linguistic set at 15 to 18 months of age, and 
sensitivity to standards of competence prior to the second birthday are emergent 
human competences that may not necessarily have a historical link to the events 
of early infancy. Developmental theorists should be as receptive to sequences 
that are relatively discontinuous as they are to those that are gradual and 
cumulative.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1979.01780100017001
PMID: 475541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1977 Sep;34(9):1047-52. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1977.01770210061005.

Ward treatment milieu and posthospital functioning.

Klass DB, Growe GA, Strizich M.

Two units of seven and 14 state hospital wards were used in a study to explore 
possible relationships between some socio-cultural aspects of ward environments 
and outcome of treatment as assessed by time out of the hospital after 
discharge. Confounding variables such as pretreatment characteristics, length of 
hospitalization, and community of discharge make conclusions from many such 
studies tenuous. Methods were derived and are here described in detail that 
reduce the influence of some of these variables. Within unit 2 (14 wards), a 
vector of social structure that differentiated the wards and consisted of two 
highly correlated factors on the Ward Atmosphere Scale was found to be 
significantly associated with outcome. Those wards seen by both patients and 
staff as lower in the allowance of expression of anger and aggression and higher 
in order and organization (only staff's perception) had better outcomes. The 
wards of unit 1 were homogeneous both in outcome and in staff and patients' 
assessments of order and organization and freedom to express anger and 
aggression.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1977.01770210061005
PMID: 901135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1989 Nov;46(11):1047-51. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1989.01810110089012.

Hypercortisolism among socially subordinate wild baboons originates at the CNS 
level.

Sapolsky RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Stanford University, CA 94305.

Recent studies suggest that the hypercortisolism and dexamathasone resistance of 
depression arise, at least in part, at the level of the brain, ie, 
cortisol-releasing factor (CRF) and/or other corticotropin-secretagogues are 
hypersecreted. This article suggests a similar cause of the hypercortisolism of 
social subordinance. Two troops of wild olive baboons, living freely in the 
Serengeti Ecosystem of East Africa, have been under long-term study. 
Consistently, in stable dominance hierachies, subordinate males are 
hypercortisolemic relative to dominant animals. Furthermore, hypercortisolemic 
males are dexamethasone resistant. There are no rank-related difference in 
cortisol clearance or adrenal sensitivity to corticotropin, suggesting a 
pituitary and/or neural locus of the hypercortisolism. Subordinate males were 
shown to secrete less corticotropin in response to a CRF-challenge than did 
dominant males. Following the logic used in similar studies with depressives, if 
subordinate males were hypercortisolemic despite decreased pituitary sensitivity 
to CRF, then this implies that the hyperactivity of the adrenocortical axis is 
driven at the level of the brain. Furthermore, subordinate males were 
hyporesponsive to CRF after administration of metyrapone, which blocks cortisol 
secretion and disinhibits the pituitary from feedback inhibition. Thus, the 
pituitary appears to have lost sensitivity to CRF itself in these low-ranking 
males. These observations are interpreted in light of behavioral data suggesting 
that these subordinate males are under sustained social stress.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1989.01810110089012
PMID: 2554841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Gen Microbiol. 1989 May;135(5):1047-59. doi: 10.1099/00221287-135-5-1047.

Identification of DNA regions homologous to nitrogen fixation genes nifE, nifUS 
and fixABC in Azospirillum brasilense Sp7.

Galimand M(1), Perroud B, Delorme F, Paquelin A, Vieille C, Bozouklian H, 
Elmerich C.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Physiologie Cellulaire, Département des Biotechnologies, Institut 
Pasteur, Paris, France.

A 30 kb DNA region from Azospirillum brasilense Sp7, containing the nitrogenase 
structural genes (nifHDK), has been cloned. The presence of nif genes, in the 20 
kb located next to nifHDK, was explored by Tn5 mutagenesis after subcloning 
various restriction fragments in the broad-host-range suicide vehicle pSUP202. 
Over 25 mutations due to Tn5 random insertions were obtained in the 20 kb and 
each recombined into the genome of strain Sp7. Four new nif loci were 
identified, located at about 4, 9, 12 and 18 kb downstream from nifK 
respectively. Hybridization with heterologous nif probes from Klebsiella 
pneumoniae, Bradyrhizobium japonicum and Azorhizobium caulinodans was performed 
to characterize the new nif regions. The region proximal to nifK appears to 
contain nifE and the region distal to nifK contains genes homologous to nifUS 
and fixABC. nifgene(s) from the fourth locus were not identified. Mutants in 
this locus, which were devoid of nitrogenase activity when tested under 
nitrogen-free conditions, displayed a high nitrogenase activity when glutamate 
was added to the growth medium. This phenomenon was also observed with mutants 
of the fixABC homology region, but to a lesser extent. Homology between strain 
Sp7 total DNA and a nifB-containing probe from B. japonicum was detected, 
although the hybridizing region was not part of the nif cluster described above.

DOI: 10.1099/00221287-135-5-1047
PMID: 2695597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1987 Dec;44(12):1047-56. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1987.01800240021004.

An evaluation of family therapy in anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa.

Russell GF(1), Szmukler GI, Dare C, Eisler I.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, London.

A controlled trial comparing family therapy with individual supportive therapy 
in anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa was undertaken. Eighty patients (57 with 
anorexia nervosa; 23 with bulimia nervosa) were first admitted to a specialized 
unit to restore their weight to normal. Before discharge, they were randomly 
allocated to family therapy or the control treatment (individual supportive 
therapy). After one year of psychological treatment, they were reassessed, using 
body weight, menstrual function, and ratings on the Morgan and Russell scales. 
Family therapy was found to be more effective than individual therapy in 
patients whose illness was not chronic and had begun before the age of 19 years. 
A more tentative finding was the greater value of individual supportive therapy 
in older patients. To our knowledge, this is the first controlled trial of 
family therapy in anorexia nervosa and clarifies the specific indications for 
this treatment.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1987.01800240021004
PMID: 3318754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Gen Physiol. 1965 Jul;48(6):1047-70. doi: 10.1085/jgp.48.6.1047.

Isotope flows and flux ratios in biological membranes.

Kedem O, Essig A.

Precise evaluation of permeability of biological tissues is often prevented by 
imprecise knowledge of operative forces. This problem has been approached by 
analysis of fluxes of isotopic species applied to opposite surfaces of a 
membrane. A simple and rather general flux ratio equation has been derived which 
may permit evaluation of membrane permeability, even without knowledge of 
forces, or of the nature of active transport processes. Permeability as thus 
defined should be insensitive to coupled flows, either of other species or of 
metabolism. In appropriate circumstances application of the equation may permit 
evaluation of the contributions of the various processes to the transport of the 
examined species. Composite series membranes would be expected to obey the 
unmodified general equation. Heterogeneous parallel pathways would alter the 
relation in a predictable manner. The effect of isotope interaction is 
specifically incorporated. The formulation is applied to consideration of 
energetics of active transport.

DOI: 10.1085/jgp.48.6.1047
PMCID: PMC2195444
PMID: 5855508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Gen Microbiol. 1984 Oct;130(10):2527-34. doi: 10.1099/00221287-130-10-2527.

Plasmids resembling 2-micrometers DNA in the osmotolerant yeasts Saccharomyces 
bailii and Saccharomyces bisporus.

Toh-e A, Araki H, Utatsu I, Oshima Y.

Five of eight strains of Saccharomyces bailii and one of 13 strains of S. 
bisporus were found to harbour DNA plasmids. pSB1 and pSB2 plasmids were 
isolated from S. bailii strains IFO 0488 and IFO 1047, respectively, and pSB3 
and pSB4 from S. bisporus strain IFO 1730. All four plasmids resemble 
2-micrometers DNA of S. cerevisiae in that their molecular sizes are about 6 kb, 
each molecule possesses a pair of inverted repeats, they exist as a mixture of 
two isomers and their copy numbers in the native host are similar. None of them 
showed homology with 2-micrometers DNA or with each other by Southern 
hybridization under moderately stringent conditions, but pSB4 hybridized with 
the pSR1 DNA, which was found previously in a strain of S. rouxii. Each of the 
pSB plasmids has DNA sequence(s) effective for autonomous replication in S. 
cerevisiae. In S. cerevisiae, pSB3 and pSB4 showed intramolecular recombination 
but neither supported isomerization of 2-micrometers DNA.

DOI: 10.1099/00221287-130-10-2527
PMID: 6096485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. J Gen Microbiol. 1982 May;128(5):1047-52. doi: 10.1099/00221287-128-5-1047.

Some properties of glutathione biosynthesis-deficient mutants of Escherichia 
coli B.

Murata K, Kimura A.

Mutants of Escherichia coli B that contain essentially no detectable glutathione 
were isolated. These mutants had a very low activity of gamma-glutamylcysteine 
synthetase or glutathione synthetase. No significant differences in growth in 
minimal medium were observed between the mutants and the parental strain. The 
mutants lacking gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase activity were more susceptible 
to toxic compounds than either the parental strain or a glutathione 
synthetase-deficient strain. The mutants lacking gamma-glutamylcysteine 
synthetase activity were also susceptible to oxygen.

DOI: 10.1099/00221287-128-5-1047
PMID: 6125559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1980 Sep;37(9):1047-54. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1980.01780220085010.

Prostaglandins, platelets, and schizophrenia.

Rotrosen J, Miller AD, Mandio D, Traficante LJ, Gershon S.

Prostaglandin (PG) E1 enhances formation of 3H-adenosine-3',5'-cyclic 
monophasphate (3H-cAMP) in platelets pulse-labeled with 3H-adenine. This 
response was assessed as an index of receptor sensitivity and of PG function. 
Prostagladin E1-stimulated 3H-cAMP accumulation in paltelets from schizophrenics 
was significantly reduced compared with control subjects. Platelet incorporation 
of 3H-adenine and basal 3H-cAMP accumulation. We discuss the results in terms of 
the possible role of PGs in the etiopathology of schizophrenia and derivative 
implications for treatment.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1980.01780220085010
PMID: 6251771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1995 Jul;52(7):574-82. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1995.03950190056008.

Is the comorbidity between social phobia and panic disorder due to familial 
cotransmission or other factors?

Horwath E(1), Wolk SI, Goldstein RB, Wickramaratne P, Sobin C, Adams P, Lish JD, 
Weissman MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: We previously reported significantly elevated rates of social phobia 
in relatives of probands with panic disorder compared with relatives of other 
proband groups. This study further investigates the relationship between social 
phobia and panic disorder.
METHOD: This sample is from a family study that included 193 probands from four 
mutually exclusive groups (patients with panic disorder, patients with panic 
disorder and major depression, patients with early-onset major depression, and 
normal controls) and 1047 of their adult first-degree relatives. Best-estimate 
diagnoses were completed using DSM-III-R criteria.
RESULTS: Social phobia and agoraphobia aggregate in the families of probands 
with panic disorder without major depression. Social phobia frequently co-occurs 
with panic disorder in relatives, but the risk for comorbidity does not vary 
across proband groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The familial aggregation of social phobia with panic disorder may 
be explained by the aggregation of panic disorder in relatives of probands with 
panic disorder combined with the tendency for panic disorder to occur comorbidly 
with social phobia in individuals.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1995.03950190056008
PMID: 7598634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1994 May;51(5):383-94. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1994.03950050043005.

Psychiatric disorders in relatives of probands with panic disorder and/or major 
depression.

Goldstein RB(1), Weissman MM, Adams PB, Horwath E, Lish JD, Charney D, Woods SW, 
Sobin C, Wickramaratne PJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical and Genetic Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric 
Institute, New York.

BACKGROUND: Panic disorder and major depression (MDD) are both highly familial 
disorders that co-occur in individuals but do not cosegregate in families. 
Evidence concerning their familial aggregation with other psychiatric disorders, 
including phobias, substance abuse, and antisocial personality, has been 
contradictory. In part, the contradictory findings may be due to failure to 
account for the effects of proband comorbidity on risks in relatives.
METHODS: A family study of 1047 adult first-degree relatives of 193 probands in 
four diagnostic groups (panic disorder without MDD, panic disorder plus MDD, 
early-onset MDD, and screened normal controls) was used to determine the range 
of psychiatric disorders associated with panic disorder and MDD and the effects 
of proband comorbidity on the rates of disorders in relatives.
RESULTS: Compared to relatives of normal controls, relatives of probands with 
panic disorder or panic disorder and MDD showed significantly increased risks of 
panic disorder, but relatives of probands with early-onset MDD did not. After 
proband comorbidity was controlled for, relatives of probands with panic 
disorder were also at a significantly increased risk for social phobia but not 
for any other psychiatric disorders. Relatives of probands with early-onset MDD 
were at significantly increased risk for MDD, dysthymia, abuse of or dependence 
on alcohol and other drugs, and antisocial personality disorders but not for any 
other psychiatric disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that panic disorder is a specific familial entity that 
is not associated with a broad range of other anxiety or other psychiatric 
disorders, with the possible exception of social phobia. Dysthymia, substance 
abuse, and antisocial personality appear to be on the spectrum of early-onset 
MDD.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1994.03950050043005
PMID: 8179462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1993 Oct;50(10):767-80. doi: 
10.1001/archpsyc.1993.01820220017003.

The relationship between panic disorder and major depression. A new family 
study.

Weissman MM(1), Wickramaratne P, Adams PB, Lish JD, Horwath E, Charney D, Woods 
SW, Leeman E, Frosch E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia 
University, New York, NY.

Comment in
    Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1994 Nov;51(11):926-7.

OBJECTIVE: The comorbidity between panic disorder and major depression (MDD) in 
individuals has been amply documented. However, data from family studies to 
determine whether panic disorder and MDD aggregate separately or together in 
families have been inconclusive, in part because of the absence of studies with 
the full range of proband groups. This report presents results from a family 
study with the necessary mutually exclusive groups: panic disorder without MDD, 
panic disorder with MDD, MDD without panic disorder, and normal controls.
METHODS: Diagnostic information was obtained from 193 probands and 1047 of their 
adult relatives with the Schedule for Affective Disorders and 
Schizophrenia--Lifetime Version for Anxiety Disorders by direct interview, 
and/or from multiple informants, without knowledge of proband diagnoses. 
Best-estimate diagnoses were based on all available information by clinicians 
independently of data collection and without knowledge of probands' and other 
relatives' status.
RESULTS: Findings indicated the specific and independent transmission of panic 
disorder and MDD, the separation of panic disorder from MDD, and the nonfamilial 
nature of late-onset MDD. The pattern of results was unaffected by the use of 
different diagnostic criteria, number of informants, interview status of 
relatives, presence of substance abuse or agoraphobia or the sequence of MDD and 
panic disorder in probands, or whether probands were selected from treatment 
clinics or community sample.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that panic disorder and MDD are separate disorders with 
substantial co-occurrence in individuals, and that panic comorbid with MDD is 
not a single, distinct disorder. Finally, we illustrate an approach to examining 
comorbidity in family data through analysis of mutually exclusive, parallel 
diagnoses in probands and relatives.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.1993.01820220017003
PMID: 8215801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Plant Physiol. 1993 Dec;103(4):1047-53. doi: 10.1104/pp.103.4.1047.

Regulation of Arabidopsis thaliana L. (Heyn) cor78 in response to low 
temperature.

Horvath DP(1), McLarney BK, Thomashow MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Crop and Soil Sciences, Michigan State University, East Lansing 
48824.

Changes in gene expression occur during cold acclimation in a variety of plants 
including Arabidopsis thaliana L. (Heyn). Here we examine the cold-regulated 
expression of A. thaliana cor78. The results of gene-fusion experiments confirm 
the finding of Yamaguchi-Shinozaki and Shinozaki ([1993] Mol Gen Genet 236: 
331-340) that the 5' region of cor78 has cis-acting regulatory elements that can 
impart cold-regulated gene expression. Further, histochemical staining 
experiments indicated that this cold-regulatory element(s) was active at low 
temperature throughout much of the plant including leaves, stems, roots, flower 
petals, filaments, and sepals. Time-course experiments indicated that the 
activity of the cor78 promoter in cold-acclimated plants was down-regulated 
quickly in response to noninducing temperatures and that the half-life of the 
cor78 transcripts was only about 40 min at normal growth temperature. Fusion of 
the entire transcribed region of cor78 to the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S 
promoter resulted in a chimeric gene that was constitutively expressed and 
displayed little if any posttranscriptional regulation in response to low 
temperature.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.103.4.1047
PMCID: PMC159088
PMID: 8290624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. J Gen Physiol. 1995 Dec;106(6):1047-51. doi: 10.1085/jgp.106.6.1047.

Charge movement in the sodium channel.

Sigworth FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520, USA.

DOI: 10.1085/jgp.106.6.1047
PMCID: PMC2229309
PMID: 8786349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Gen Pharmacol. 1996 Sep;27(6):1047-51. doi: 10.1016/0306-3623(95)02099-3.

Comparison of responses to histamine by constant-flow and constant-pressure 
perfusion methods in the rabbit isolated kidney preparation.

Bökesoy TA(1), Tastan S, Türker RK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ankara, 
Turkey.

1. Reproducibility and sensitivity of responses of isolated perfused rabbit 
renal vascular bed to bolus administration of histamine was compared for the 
conditions of constant-flow and constant-pressure perfusion by Krebs-Henseleit 
solution. Two other vasoactive agents (noradrenaline and angiotensin II) were 
also tested in the same preparation for comparison with the effect of histamine. 
2. In constant-pressure mode, different hydrostatic pressures were also employed 
for the analysis of time-effect phenomena. 3. Drug responses were recorded by 
computer and were evaluated as changes of perfusion pressure or flow, to 
correspond to drug activities at the resistance vessels and, also, change of 
organ weight, as effects on exchange and capacitance functions of the 
circulation. Both parameters were also recorded on a Grass polygraph. 4. 
Reproducibility and sensitivity of responses to vasoactive agents (histamine, 
noradrenaline, angiotensin II) were significantly low in the constant-flow 
conditions, compared to constant-pressure mode. 5. Responsivity also deviated 
for different perfusion pressures of constant-pressure mode and 80-100 mm H2O 
pressure was found to be the most convenient value. 6. It is concluded that 
constant-flow and constant-pressure conditions provide different hydrodynamic 
conditions. In constant-flow methodology, when the predetermined perfusion rate 
is not tolerated by the vascular bed, excessive flow in the circulation would 
lead to depression of vasoactivity, failing pharmacodynamic equilibria and loss 
of responsivity. Structural deviation of the vascular bed would also be expected 
due to differences of organ specimen and, probably, result in the variation of 
responsivity of constant-flow perfusion procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/0306-3623(95)02099-3
PMID: 8909989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Gen Virol. 1995 Apr;76 ( Pt 4):1047-50. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-76-4-1047.

Hepatitis B virus: specific binding and internalization of small HBsAg by human 
hepatocytes.

de Bruin WC(1), Hertogs K, Leenders WP, Depla E, Yap SH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastro-intestinal and Liver Diseases, Academical Hospital 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Previously, we identified human liver endonexin II (EII) present on human 
hepatocyte plasma membrane as a specific hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) 
binding protein. We also showed the spontaneous development of anti-idiotypic 
(anti-HBsAg) antibodies in rabbits immunized with EII and in chicken immunized 
with the F(ab')2 fragment of rabbit anti-EII IgG. These findings suggest the 
existence of a receptor-ligand relationship between EII and HBsAg. In the 
present study, we demonstrate that small HBsAg conjugated to 10 nm colloidal 
gold also binds specifically to human hepatocytes. Invagination of the coated 
pit region at the HBsAg binding sites on the human hepatocyte plasma membrane 
results in the internalization of the HBsAg-gold particles. The binding and 
consequently the internalization of HBsAg is inhibited by anti-EII or 
anti-idiotypic (anti-HBsAg) antibodies. These findings indicate that EII is 
directly involved in the binding and uptake of hepatitis B envelope proteins.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-76-4-1047
PMID: 9049356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Gen Virol. 1998 May;79 ( Pt 5):1047-54. doi: 10.1099/0022-1317-79-5-1047.

Expression of ORF A1 of infectious bursal disease virus results in the formation 
of virus-like particles.

Fernández-Arias A(1), Risco C, Martínez S, Albar JP, Rodríguez JF.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología Molecular y Celular, Centro Nacional de 
Biotecnología, Cantoblanco, Madrid, Spain.

A recombinant vaccinia virus inducibly expressing ORF A1 of infectious bursal 
disease virus (IBDV) has been constructed and characterized. Cells infected with 
this recombinant virus express the IBDV polyprotein, which is proteolytically 
processed to give mature VP2, VP3, and VP4 polypeptides. An electron microscopy 
study revealed that the cytoplasm of cells infected with the recombinant virus 
contains abundant IBDV-like particles (VLP). These VLP form close-packed 
paracrystalline arrays that are specifically recognized by anti-IBDV antibodies. 
The size and morphology of purified VLP were found to be akin to those of 
authentic IBDV particles.

DOI: 10.1099/0022-1317-79-5-1047
PMID: 9603319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1998 Nov;55(11):1047-8. doi:
10.1001/archpsyc.55.11.1047.

Reviving applied family intervention.

Liberman RP, Mintz J.

Comment on
    Arch Gen Psychiatry. 1997 May;54(5):453-63.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.55.11.1047
PMID: 9819074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Phys Rev A Gen Phys. 1988 Feb 1;37(3):1047-1049. doi:
10.1103/physreva.37.1047.

Photoionization of excited nf states in the Cs isoelectronic sequence: A new 
example of orbital collapse.

Lahiri J, Manson ST.

DOI: 10.1103/physreva.37.1047
PMID: 9899764


20. Int J Plant Sci. 1999 Sep;160(5):1047-1055. doi: 10.1086/314191.

Permineralized Ferns from the Middle Eocene Princeton Chert. I. Makotopteris 
princetonensis Gen. et Sp. Nov. (Athyriaceae).

Stockey RA, Nishida H, Rothwell GW.

The occurrence of numerous anatomically preserved specimens of an extinct 
filicalean fern in the middle Eocene Princeton chert from southern British 
Columbia, Canada, provides the basis for characterizing a new genus and species 
of the Athyriaceae. Fossils include narrow horizontal rhizomes with a radial 
amphiphloic dictyostele and internodes up to 1.5 cm long. Fronds are 
monomorphic. Adventitious roots are diarch and display a parenchymatous cortex. 
Stipes diverge in a radial fashion and display two hippocampiform bundles at the 
base. Distally, the bundles unite into a single trace, and pinnules are produced 
in an opposite to subopposite arrangement. The stipe, rachis, and pinnules 
display a continuous U-shaped groove on the adaxial surface. Sori of annulate 
sporangia are borne below veins on swollen receptacles. The sporangia are 
characterized by a vertical annulus and a narrow, elongated stalk. Spores are 
monolete and ellipsoidal, with a psilate exine and a distinctly spiny perispore. 
Makotopteris princetonensis gen. et sp. nov. significantly increases our 
knowledge of the fossil record for the Athyriaceae and documents that 
essentially modern athyrioids were present in the flora of North America by the 
early Tertiary.

DOI: 10.1086/314191
PMID: 10506480


21. Mol Gen Genet. 2000 Jan;262(6):1047-51. doi: 10.1007/pl00008647.

Molecular analysis of the NAC gene family in rice.

Kikuchi K(1), Ueguchi-Tanaka M, Yoshida KT, Nagato Y, Matsusoka M, Hirano HY.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Graduate School of Agricultural 
and Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Japan.

Genes that encode products containing a NAC domain, such as NO APICAL MERISTEM 
(NAM) in petunia, CUP-SHAPED COTYLEDON2 (CUC2) and NAP in Arabidopsis thaliana, 
have crucial functions in plant development. We describe here molecular aspects 
of the OsNAC genes that encode proteins with NAC domains in rice (Oryza sativa 
L.). Sequence analysis revealed that the NAC genes in plants can be divided into 
several subfamilies, such as the NAM, ATAF, and OsNAC3 subfamilies. In rice, 
OsNAC1 and OsNAC2 are classified in the NAM subfamily, which includes NAM and 
CUC2, while OsNAC5 and OsNAC6 fall into the ATAF subfamily. In addition to the 
members of these subfamilies, the rice genome contains the NAC genes OsNAC3, 
OsNAC4 (both in the OsNAC3 subfamily), OsNAC7, and OsNAC8. These results and 
Southern analysis indicate that the OsNAC genes constitute a large gene family 
in the rice genome. Each OsNAC gene is expressed in a specific pattern in 
different organs, suggesting that this family has diverse and important roles in 
rice development.

DOI: 10.1007/pl00008647
PMID: 10660065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Mol Gen Genet. 2000 Jul;263(6):1047-52. doi: 10.1007/s004380050033.

Efficient transformation of the edible basidiomycete Lentinus edodes with a 
vector using a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase promoter to hygromycin B 
resistance.

Hirano T(1), Sato T, Yaegashi K, Enei H.

Author information:
(1)Iwate Biotechnology Research Center, Kitakami, Japan.

To construct a vector for high-level expression of heterologous genes in 
Lentinus edodes, the L. edodes GPD promoter, which is expressed constitutively 
and strongly, was fused to a hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene (hph) derived 
from Escherichia coli as a selective marker. Using the resulting pLG-hph 
construct, L. edodes was efficiently transformed to hygromycin resistance by 
restriction enzyme-mediated integration (REMI). The restriction enzyme 
concentrations yielding the maximal numbers of transformants by the REMI method 
were 10 U per transformation in the case of BglII and 25-50 U in the case of 
HindIII. Southern analysis of the transformants indicated that some 50% of 
plasmid integrations were REMI-mediated events. These results indicate that pLG 
is a useful vector for transformation of L. edodes. Deletion analysis of the GPD 
promoter region suggested that the segment between positions -442 bp and -270 bp 
relative to the transcription start point may be essential for function.

DOI: 10.1007/s004380050033
PMID: 10954091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2000 Sep;57(9):859-66. doi: 10.1001/archpsyc.57.9.859.

Parental psychopathology, parenting styles, and the risk of social phobia in 
offspring: a prospective-longitudinal community study.

Lieb R(1), Wittchen HU, Höfler M, Fuetsch M, Stein MB, Merikangas KR.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry, Clinical Psychology and Epidemiology 
Unit, Kraepelinstrasse 2, Munich 80804, Germany. lieb@mpipsykl.mpg.de

BACKGROUND: This article examines the associations between DSM-IV social phobia 
and parental psychopathology, parenting style, and characteristics of family 
functioning in a representative community sample of adolescents.
METHODS: Findings are based on baseline and first follow-up data of 1047 
adolescents aged 14 to 17 years at baseline (response rate, 74.3%), and 
independent diagnostic interviews with one of their parents. Diagnostic 
assessments in parents and adolescents were based on the DSM-IV algorithms of 
the Munich-Composite International Diagnostic Interview. Parenting style 
(rejection, emotional warmth, and overprotection) was assessed by the 
Questionnaire of Recalled Parental Rearing Behavior, and family functioning 
(problem solving, communication, roles, affective responsiveness, affective 
involvement, and behavioral control) was assessed by the McMaster Family 
Assessment Device.
RESULTS: There was a strong association between parental social phobia and 
social phobia among offspring (odds ratio [OR], 4.7; 95% confidence interval 
[CI], 1.6-13.5). Other forms of parental psychopathology also were associated 
with social phobia in adolescents (depression: OR, 3.6; 95% CI, 1.4-9.1; any 
anxiety disorder other than social phobia: OR, 3.5; 95% CI, 1.4-8.8; and any 
alcohol use disorder: OR, 3.0; 95% CI, 1.1-7.8). Parenting style, specifically 
parental overprotection (OR, 1.4; 95% CI, 1.0-1.9) and rejection (OR, 1.4; 95% 
CI, 1.1-1.9), was found to be associated with social phobia in respondents. 
Family functioning was not associated with respondents' social phobia.
CONCLUSIONS: Data suggest that parental psychopathology, particularly social 
phobia and depression, and perceived parenting style (overprotection and 
rejection) are both associated with the development of social phobia in youth.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.57.9.859
PMID: 10986549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Gen Virol. 2003 Apr;84(Pt 4):1047-1052. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.18774-0.

Molecular analysis of iatrogenic scrapie in Italy.

Zanusso G(1), Casalone C(2), Acutis P(2), Bozzetta E(2), Farinazzo A(1), Gelati 
M(1), Fiorini M(1), Forloni G(3), Sy MS(4), Monaco S(1), Caramelli M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological and Visual Sciences, University of Verona, 
Piazzale L. A. Scuro, 10, 37134 Verona, Italy.
(2)CEA Istituto Zooprofilattico del Piemonte, Liguria e Valle d'Aosta, Via 
Bologna 148, 10154 Torino, Italy.
(3)Laboratorio di Biologia delle Malattie Neurodegenerative, Istituto di 
Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Via Eritrea 62, 20157 Milano, Italy.
(4)Institute of Pathology, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, 
Cleveland, OH 44106-1712, USA.

An accidental intra- and interspecies transmission of scrapie occurred in Italy 
in 1997 and 1998 following exposure to a vaccine against Mycoplasma agalactiae. 
PrP(Sc) in affected sheep and goats, collected from a single flock exposed to 
vaccination 2 years earlier, was molecularly typed. In five animals with 
iatrogenic scrapie, a PrP(Sc) type with a 20 kDa core fragment was found in all 
areas of the brain investigated. In three sheep and one goat, this isoform 
co-occurred with a fully glycosylated isoform that had a protease-resistant 
backbone of 17 kDa, whereas in two sheep and four goats, the two PrP(Sc) types 
were detected in different regions of the brain. In sheep with natural field 
scrapie, a PrP(Sc) type with physico-chemical properties indistinguishable from 
the 20 kDa isoform was found. The present results suggest the co-presence of two 
prion strains in mammary gland and brain homogenates used for vaccination.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.18774-0
PMID: 12655108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. J Gen Physiol. 1960 Jul;43(6):1047-59. doi: 10.1085/jgp.43.6.1047.

The metabolism of serum proteins in neonatal rabbits.

DEICHMILLER MP, DIXON FJ.

1. Incorporation of S(35)-labeled amino acids into serum proteins has been 
studied in neonatal and developing rabbits. It was found that, per unit weight, 
neonatal rabbits synthesized only about 1/36 of the gamma globulin, 1/7 of the 
beta globulin, (1/2) of the alpha globulin, and (1/8) of the albumin that an 
adult synthesized. The growing rabbit developed the ability to synthesize 
various serum proteins at different times. 2. Plasma volumes and serum protein 
concentrations were determined at different times during the growth period of 
the rabbit. Plasma volumes were found to be 1 and (1/2) times larger in newborn 
animals than in adults, with a gradual decline to the adult level. The total 
serum protein concentration at birth was about 60 to 65 per cent of the adult 
value and gradually increased with growth as the plasma volume decreased. 3. 
Half-lives of homologous albumin and gamma globulin were studied. The half-life 
of albumin in neonates was nearly twice as long as the half-life in adults, the 
latter value being reached at 1 month of age. The half-life of gamma globulin in 
neonates was more than twice as long as the half-life in adults and reached 
adult values at 2 to 3 months. 4. Attempts were made to alter serum protein 
metabolism. Gamma globulin synthesis early in life was augmented with antigen 
injections.

DOI: 10.1085/jgp.43.6.1047
PMCID: PMC2195071
PMID: 13721287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Gen Physiol. 1961 Jul;44(6):1047-54. doi: 10.1085/jgp.44.6.1047.

The effect of variations in the intra- and extracellular ion concentrations upon 
the electrical activity of normal and dystrophic mouse skeletal muscle.

MCLENNAN H.

The resting and action potentials of the m. gastrocnemii of normal and 
dystrophic mice have been measured in vitro, under various conditions of the 
ionic environment. The observed effects are consistent with the view that, when 
equilibrium is established between internal and external ionic concentrations, 
the resting potential is determined very largely, and perhaps entirely, by the 
gradient of K ions. Action potentials are associated with a greatly increased Na 
conductance in this as in other excitable tissues. No differences in electrical 
activity between normal and dystrophic muscle cells could be established.

DOI: 10.1085/jgp.44.6.1047
PMCID: PMC2195145
PMID: 13774115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Rev Pathol Gen Physiol Clin. 1962 Nov;62:1047-74.

[Dietary lipids: nutritive value and atherogenic power].

[Article in French]

TREMOLIERES J, APFELBAUM.

PMID: 13994063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Gen Physiol. 1963 May;46(5):1047-64. doi: 10.1085/jgp.46.5.1047.

Schwann cell and axon electrical potential differences. Squid nerve structure 
and excitable membrane location.

VILLEGAS R, VILLEGAS L, GIMENEZ M, VILLEGAS GM.

In fifty-seven resting nerve fibers of the squid Sepioteuthis sepioidea impaled 
from outside to inside, three potential difference (PD) levels were recorded. In 
twelve nerve fibers the position of the tip of the micropipette, when it was 
recording one of the PD levels, was labeled with carmine, and the minute spot of 
dye was localized histologically. The first PD level of -10 to -26 mv, was 
located in the endoneurium cells; the second level, formed by a single PD of -33 
to -46 mv, was located in the Schwann cell; and the third level, formed by a 
single PD of -50 to -65 mv, was located in the axon. In sixteen nerve fibers the 
independence among these PD levels was demonstrated as follows. One micropipette 
was inserted inside the axon for recording its PD; a second one was inserted 
inside one endoneurium cell or inside one Schwann cell for recording the PD; and 
a third micropipette was inserted inside the axon to supply current to 
depolarize the axon. When the axon was depolarized no significant change was 
observed in the PD of either the endoneurium cell or the Schwann cell. In all 
nerve fibers action potentials were registered from the axon only. This 
identifies the axolemma (axon plasma membrane) as the excitable membrane.

DOI: 10.1085/jgp.46.5.1047
PMCID: PMC2195305
PMID: 13997308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Gen Physiol Biophys. 2003 Sep;22(3):329-40.

Isolation and morphology of single Purkinje cells from the porcine heart.

Stankovicová T(1), Bito V, Heinzel F, Mubagwa K, Sipido KR.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Cardiology, Catholic University of Leuven, 
Belgium. Tatiana.Stankovicova@fpharm.uniba.sk

Purkinje cells were isolated from both ventricles of young adult domestic pigs 
and examined by transmitted light or laser scanning confocal microscopy. 
Purkinje cells in free running Purkinje fibres were organised in multicellular 
strands where individual cells were tightly connected end-to-end and closely 
side-to-side. After isolation, single cells gradually lost the elongated 
appearance and became more rounded, but the cell membrane remained smooth and 
undamaged. The contractile material was not very dense and was seen most clearly 
in the submembraneous area. Staining of the cell membrane with the lipophilic 
fluorescent (lye di-8-ANNEPS, and visualization with confocal microscopy, 
confirmed that the cell surface membrane was smooth without blebs. This staining 
also showed that Purkinje cells had no transversal tubules. We reconstructed the 
three-dimensional geometry of the Purkinje cells and determined the cell size. 
The average values were 62 +/- 9 microm for length, 32 +/- 3 microm for width, 
and 41 +/- 4 microm for depth (n = 7). Calculated cross-section area and volume 
were 1047 +/- 167 microm2 and 47 +/- 14 pl. Compared to ventricular cells, the 
morphology of the Purkinje cells reflects their specific role in impulse 
conduction.

PMID: 14986884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. J Gen Virol. 2006 May;87(Pt 5):1047-1074. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.81598-0.

Regulation of intracellular signalling by the terminal membrane proteins of 
members of the Gammaherpesvirinae.

Brinkmann MM(1), Schulz TF(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Virologie, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Carl-Neuberg Str. 
1, D-30625 Hannover, Germany.

The human gamma(1)-herpesvirus Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and the 
gamma(2)-herpesviruses Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV), rhesus 
rhadinovirus (RRV), herpesvirus saimiri (HVS) and herpesvirus ateles (HVA) all 
contain genes located adjacent to the terminal-repeat region of their genomes, 
encoding membrane proteins involved in signal transduction. Designated 'terminal 
membrane proteins' (TMPs) because of their localization in the viral genome, 
they interact with a variety of cellular signalling molecules, such as 
non-receptor protein tyrosine kinases, tumour-necrosis factor 
receptor-associated factors, Ras and Janus kinase (JAK), thereby initiating 
further downstream signalling cascades, such as the MAPK, PI3K/Akt, NF-kappaB 
and JAK/STAT pathways. In the case of TMPs expressed during latent persistence 
of EBV and HVS (LMP1, LMP2A, Stp and Tip), their modulation of intracellular 
signalling pathways has been linked to the provision of survival signals to 
latently infected cells and, hence, a contribution to occasional cellular 
transformation. In contrast, activation of similar pathways by TMPs of KSHV (K1 
and K15) and RRV (R1), expressed during lytic replication, may extend the 
lifespan of virus-producing cells, alter their migration and/or modulate 
antiviral immune responses. Whether R1 and K1 contribute to the oncogenic 
properties of KSHV and RRV has not been established satisfactorily, despite 
their transforming qualities in experimental settings.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.81598-0
PMID: 16603506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2006 May;56(Pt 5):1047-1053. doi: 
10.1099/ijs.0.64012-0.

Vulcanibacillus modesticaldus gen. nov., sp. nov., a strictly anaerobic, 
nitrate-reducing bacterium from deep-sea hydrothermal vents.

L'Haridon S(1), Miroshnichenko ML(2), Kostrikina NA(2), Tindall BJ(3), Spring 
S(3), Schumann P(3), Stackebrandt E(3), Bonch-Osmolovskaya EA(2), Jeanthon C(1).

Author information:
(1)UMR 6197, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, IFREMER and 
Université de Bretagne Occidentale, Institut Universitaire Européen de la Mer, 
29280 Plouzané, France.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Prospect 60-letiya 
Oktyabraya 7/2, 117811 Moscow, Russia.
(3)German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures (DSMZ), Mascheroder Weg 
1b, 38124 Braunschweig, Germany.

A novel anaerobic, moderately thermophilic, spore-forming bacterium, designated 
strain BRT, was isolated from deep-sea hydrothermal core samples collected at 
the Rainbow vent field on the Mid-Atlantic Ridge (36 degrees 14' N 33 degrees 
54' W). The cells were found to be rod-shaped, non-motile, Gram-positive and 
spore-forming. The organism grew in the temperature range 37-60 degrees C, with 
an optimum at 55 degrees C, and at pH values in the range 6-8.5, with an optimum 
around pH 7. NaCl concentrations for growth were in the range 10-40 g l(-1), 
with an optimum at 20-30 g l(-1). Strain BRT grew chemo-organoheterotrophically 
with carbohydrates, proteinaceous substrates and organic acids with nitrate as 
electron acceptor. The novel isolate was not able to ferment. The G+C content of 
the genomic DNA was 34.5 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis of the 16S rRNA gene 
sequence placed strain BRT in the Bacillaceae within the class 'Bacilli'. On the 
basis of the phenotypic and phylogenetic data, this isolate should be described 
as a member of a novel genus, for which the name Vulcanibacillus gen. nov. is 
proposed. The type species is Vulcanibacillus modesticaldus sp. nov., with the 
type strain BRT (=DSM 14931T=JCM 12998T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijs.0.64012-0
PMID: 16627653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Gen Intern Med. 2007 Jul;22(7):1047-52. doi: 10.1007/s11606-007-0207-3.
Epub  2007 Apr 20.

An unusual case of cardiac amyloidosis.

Garibaldi B(1), Zaas D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, The Johns Hopkins Hospital, 601 North Caroline 
Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21287, USA. bgariba1@jhmi.edu

Cardiac amyloidosis can result from any of the systemic amyloidoses. The disease 
is often characterized by a restrictive cardiomyopathy although the particular 
signs and symptoms depend in part on the underlying cause. In addition to 
managing the symptoms of heart failure, treatment options vary depending on the 
etiology of amyloid deposition. It is therefore critical to identify the cause 
of cardiac amyloidosis before initiating definitive therapy. We present a 
patient with presumed immunoglobulin (AL) amyloidosis who had a circulating 
lambda monoclonal protein, but a bone marrow biopsy with kappa predominant 
plasma cells. This unusual finding called into question the diagnosis of AL 
amyloidosis and highlights the importance and difficulty of determining the 
cause of cardiac amyloid deposition before initiating treatment. We review the 
different forms of cardiac amyloidosis and propose a diagnostic algorithm to 
help identify the etiology of cardiac amyloid deposition before beginning 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-007-0207-3
PMCID: PMC2219738
PMID: 17447098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. J Gen Intern Med. 2007 Oct;22(10):1415-21. doi: 10.1007/s11606-007-0281-6.
Epub  2007 Jul 31.

A cost analysis of colonoscopy using microcosting and time-and-motion 
techniques.

Henry SG(1), Ness RM, Stiles RA, Shintani AK, Dittus RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Michigan Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA. henrstep@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: The cost of an individual colonoscopy is an important determinant of 
the overall cost and cost-effectiveness of colorectal cancer screening. 
Published cost estimates vary widely and typically report institutional costs 
derived from gross-costing methods.
OBJECTIVE: Perform a cost analysis of colonoscopy using micro-costing and 
time-and-motion techniques to determine the total societal cost of colonoscopy, 
which includes direct health care costs as well as direct non-health care costs 
and costs related to patients' time. The design is prospective cohort. The 
participants were 276 contacted, eligible patients who underwent colonoscopy 
between July 2001 and June 2002, at either a Veterans' Affairs Medical Center or 
a University Hospital in the Southeastern United States.
MAJOR RESULTS: The median direct health care cost for colonoscopy was $379 (25%, 
75%; $343, $433). The median direct non-health care and patient time costs were 
$226 (25%, 75%; $187, $323) and $274 (25%, 75%; $186, $368), respectively. The 
median total societal cost of colonoscopy was $923 (25%, 75%; $805, $1047). The 
median direct health care, direct non-health care, patient time costs, and total 
costs at the VA were $391, $288, $274, and $958, respectively; analogous costs 
at the University Hospital were $376, $189, $368, and $905, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Microcosting techniques and time-and-motion studies can produce 
accurate, detailed cost estimates for complex medical interventions. Cost 
estimates that inform health policy decisions or cost-effectiveness analyses 
should use total costs from the societal perspective. Societal cost estimates, 
which include patient and caregiver time costs, may affect colonoscopy screening 
rates.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-007-0281-6
PMCID: PMC2305858
PMID: 17665271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2008 Apr;58(Pt 4):1047-8. doi: 
10.1099/ijs.0.2008/000299-0.

Proposal of Goodfellowiella gen. nov. to replace the illegitimate genus name 
Goodfellowia Labeda and Kroppenstedt 2006.

Labeda DP(1), Kroppenstedt RM, Euzéby JP, Tindall BJ.

Author information:
(1)Microbial Genomics and Bioprocessing Research Unit, National Center for 
Agricultural Utilization Research, Agricultural Research Service, US Department 
of Agriculture, Peoria, IL 61604, USA. david.labeda@ars.usda.gov

The prokaryotic, generic name Goodfellowia Labeda and Kroppenstedt 2006 is 
illegitimate because it is a later homonym of the name Goodfellowia Hartert, 
1903 (Animalia, Chordata, Aves, Passeriformes, Sturnidae) [Principle 2 of the 
Bacteriological Code (1990 Revision)]. A new genus name, Goodfellowiella, is 
therefore proposed for this taxon (Rule 54). This also requires that a new 
combination, Goodfellowiella coeruleoviolacea comb. nov., be proposed for the 
type species to replace the illegitimate combination Goodfellowia 
coeruleoviolacea (Preobrazhenskaya and Terekhova 1987) Labeda and Kroppenstedt 
2006.

DOI: 10.1099/ijs.0.2008/000299-0
PMID: 18398217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2008 Nov;58(Pt 11):2491-500. doi: 
10.1099/ijs.0.2008/000711-0.

Haloferula rosea gen. nov., sp. nov., Haloferula harenae sp. nov., Haloferula 
phyci sp. nov., Haloferula helveola sp. nov. and Haloferula sargassicola sp. 
nov., five marine representatives of the family Verrucomicrobiaceae within the 
phylum 'Verrucomicrobia'.

Yoon J(1), Matsuo Y, Katsuta A, Jang JH, Matsuda S, Adachi K, Kasai H, Yokota A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biosciences, The University of Tokyo, 
1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo 113-0032, Japan.

Six Gram-negative, non-motile, rod-shaped, chemoheterotrophic bacteria 
designated strains YM23-227(T), 06SJR1-1(T), AK18-024(T), 05IJR53-1(T), 
MN1-1037(T) and MN1-1047 were isolated from various marine environments and 
subjected to a polyphasic taxonomic study. Preliminary analysis based on 16S 
rRNA gene sequences revealed that the novel isolates could be affiliated with 
the family Verrucomicrobiaceae of the phylum 'Verrucomicrobia'. The strains 
shared approximately 94-100 % sequence similarity with each other and showed 
less than 94 % similarity with members of the family Verrucomicrobiaceae with 
validly published names. The DNA-DNA relatedness between strains YM23-227(T) and 
06SJR1-1(T) was less than 70 %, a value that is accepted as a phylogenetic 
definition of a species. The cell wall peptidoglycan of the strains contained 
muramic acid and meso-diaminopimelic acid. The novel isolates produced 
carotenoid pigments and squalene. The DNA G+C contents of the six strains were 
63-65 mol%. The major menaquinone was MK-9 and iso-C(14 : 0) was the major fatty 
acid. Based on the evidence from the polyphasic taxonomic study, it was 
concluded that the six strains should be classified as representing a new genus 
and five novel species of the family Verrucomicrobiaceae within the phylum 
'Verrucomicrobia', for which the names Haloferula rosea gen. nov., sp. nov. 
(type strain 06SJR1-1(T)=MBIC08340(T)=KCTC 22201(T)), Haloferula harenae sp. 
nov. (type strain YM23-227(T)=MBIC08299(T)=KCTC 22198(T)), Haloferula phyci sp. 
nov. (type strain AK18-024(T)=MBIC08341(T)=KCTC 22200(T)), Haloferula helveola 
sp. nov. (type strain 05IJR53-1(T)=MBIC08342(T)=KCTC 22199(T)) and Haloferula 
sargassicola sp. nov. (type strain MN1-1037(T)=MBIC08343(T)=KCTC 22202(T)) are 
proposed.

DOI: 10.1099/ijs.0.2008/000711-0
PMID: 18984682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Gen Virol. 2010 Apr;91(Pt 4):1047-57. doi: 10.1099/vir.0.016212-0. Epub
2009  Nov 18.

Immunodominant epitopes in nsp2 of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome 
virus are dispensable for replication, but play an important role in modulation 
of the host immune response.

Chen Z(1), Zhou X, Lunney JK, Lawson S, Sun Z, Brown E, Christopher-Hennings J, 
Knudsen D, Nelson E, Fang Y.

Author information:
(1)Veterinary Science Department, South Dakota State University, Brookings, SD 
57007, USA.

Non-structural protein 2 (nsp2) of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome 
virus (PRRSV) is the largest protein of this virus. In addition to its crucial 
role in virus replication, recent studies have indicated its involvement in 
modulating host immunity. In this study, each of the six identified 
immunodominant nsp2 B-cell epitopes (ES2-ES7) was deleted using a type I PRRSV 
cDNA infectious clone. Deletion of ES3, ES4 or ES7 allowed the generation of 
viable virus. In comparison with the parental virus, the DeltaES3 mutant showed 
increased cytolytic activity and more vigorous growth kinetics, whilst the 
DeltaES4 and DeltaES7 mutants displayed decreased cytolytic activity and slower 
growth kinetics in MARC-145 cells. These nsp2 mutants were characterized further 
in a nursery pig disease model. The results showed that the DeltaES4 and 
DeltaES7 mutants exhibited attenuated phenotypes, whereas the DeltaES3 mutant 
produced a higher peak viral load in pigs. The antibody response reached similar 
levels, as measured by IDEXX ELISA at 21 days post-infection, and slightly 
higher levels of mean virus neutralizing titres were observed from pigs infected 
by the DeltaES4 and DeltaES7 mutants. The expression of innate and T-helper 1 
cytokines was measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells or virus-infected 
macrophages. The results consistently showed that interleukin-1beta and tumour 
necrosis factor alpha expression levels were downregulated in cells that were 
stimulated (or infected) with the DeltaES3 mutant compared with parental virus 
and the other nsp2 deletion mutants. These results suggest that certain regions 
in nsp2 are non-essential for PRRSV replication but may play an important role 
in modulation of host immunity in vivo.

DOI: 10.1099/vir.0.016212-0
PMID: 19923257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. J Gen Intern Med. 2012 Aug;27(8):1047-67. doi: 10.1007/s11606-012-2036-2.

HIV prevention interventions to reduce racial disparities in the United States: 
a systematic review.

Hemmige V(1), McFadden R, Cook S, Tang H, Schneider JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

Racial and ethnic minorities are disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS in the 
United States despite advances in prevention methodologies. The goal of this 
study was to systematically review the past 30 years of HIV prevention 
interventions addressing racial disparities. We conducted electronic searches of 
Medline, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and Cochrane Review of Clinical Trials databases, 
supplemented by manual searches and expert review. Studies published before June 
5, 2011 were eligible. Prevention interventions that included over 50% 
racial/ethnic minority participants or sub-analysis by race/ethnicity, measured 
condom use only or condom use plus incident sexually transmitted infections or 
HIV as outcomes, and were affiliated with a health clinic were included in the 
review. We stratified the included articles by target population and 
intervention modality. Reviewers independently and systematically extracted all 
studies using the Downs and Black checklist for quality assessment; authors 
cross-checked 20% of extractions. Seventy-six studies were included in the final 
analysis. The mean DB score was 22.44--high compared to previously published 
means. Most of the studies were randomized controlled trials (87%) and included 
a majority of African-American participants (83%). No interventions were 
designed specifically to reduce disparities in HIV acquisition between 
populations. Additionally, few interventions targeted men who have sex with men 
or utilized HIV as a primary outcome. Interventions that combined skills 
training and cultural or interactive engagement of participants were superior to 
those depending on didactic messaging. The scope of this review was limited by 
the exclusion of non-clinic based interventions and intermediate risk endpoints. 
Interactive, skills-based sessions may be effective in preventing HIV 
acquisition in racial and ethnic minorities, but further research into 
interventions tailored to specific sub-populations, such as men who have sex 
with men, is warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-012-2036-2
PMCID: PMC3403151
PMID: 22798215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2013 Nov;142(4):1047-73. doi: 10.1037/a0030543. Epub 2012
Nov  19.

Bayesian parametric estimation of stop-signal reaction time distributions.

Matzke D(1), Dolan CV, Logan GD, Brown SD, Wagenmakers EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology.

The cognitive concept of response inhibition can be measured with the 
stop-signal paradigm. In this paradigm, participants perform a 2-choice response 
time (RT) task where, on some of the trials, the primary task is interrupted by 
a stop signal that prompts participants to withhold their response. The 
dependent variable of interest is the latency of the unobservable stop response 
(stop-signal reaction time, or SSRT). Based on the horse race model (Logan & 
Cowan, 1984), several methods have been developed to estimate SSRTs. None of 
these approaches allow for the accurate estimation of the entire distribution of 
SSRTs. Here we introduce a Bayesian parametric approach that addresses this 
limitation. Our method is based on the assumptions of the horse race model and 
rests on the concept of censored distributions. We treat response inhibition as 
a censoring mechanism, where the distribution of RTs on the primary task (go 
RTs) is censored by the distribution of SSRTs. The method assumes that go RTs 
and SSRTs are ex-Gaussian distributed and uses Markov chain Monte Carlo sampling 
to obtain posterior distributions for the model parameters. The method can be 
applied to individual as well as hierarchical data structures. We present the 
results of a number of parameter recovery and robustness studies and apply our 
approach to published data from a stop-signal experiment.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2013 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0030543
PMID: 23163766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Microbiol. 2012 Dec;50(6):1047-52. doi: 10.1007/s12275-012-2118-1. Epub
2012  Dec 30.

Diaminobutyricimonas aerilata gen. nov., sp. nov., a novel member of the family 
Microbacteriaceae isolated from an air sample in Korea.

Jang YH(1), Kim SJ, Hamada M, Tamura T, Ahn JH, Weon HY, Suzuki K, Kwon SW.

Author information:
(1)Korean Agricultural Culture Collection, National Academy of Agricultural 
Science, Rural Development Administration, Suwon 441-707, Republic of Korea.

A novel isolate, designated 6408J-67(T), was isolated from an air sample 
collected from Jeju Island, Republic of Korea. Its phenotypic, genotypic, and 
chemotaxonomic properties were compared with those of members of the family 
Microbacteriaceae. The Gram-positive, aerobic, motile rod formed light yellow, 
smooth, circular and convex colonies. Optimal growth occurred at 30°C and pH 
7.0. 16S rRNA gene sequence data showed that the isolate was a novel member of 
the family Microbacteriaceae, with the highest sequence similarity (97.4%) to 
Labedella gwakjiensis KSW2-17(T) and less (<97%) sequence similarity with other 
taxa. The major cellular fatty acids (>10% of the total) were anteiso-C(15:0), 
iso-C(14:0), and iso-C(16:0). The strain also contained MK-13, MK-12, and MK-14 
as the major menaquinones, as well as diphosphatidylglycerol, 
phosphatidylglycerol, and two unknown glycolipids. Its peptidoglycan structure 
was B1β with 2,4-diaminobutyric acid as a diamino acid. Mycolic acids were 
absent. The DNA G+C content was 68.3 mol%. Based on these phenotypic and 
genotypic findings, strain 6408J-67(T) represents a novel species of a new genus 
within the family Microbacteriaceae, for which the name Diaminobutyricimonas 
aerilata gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is 6408J-67(T) (=KACC 
15518(T) =NBRC 108726(T)).

DOI: 10.1007/s12275-012-2118-1
PMID: 23274994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. J Gen Intern Med. 2015 Aug;30(8):1047-8. doi: 10.1007/s11606-015-3307-5.

The Use of Technology to Enhance Health.

Nilsen W(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD, USA, nilsenwj@od.nih.gov.

Comment on
    J Gen Intern Med. 2015 Aug;30(8):1063-70.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-015-3307-5
PMCID: PMC4510231
PMID: 25851304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Gen Intern Med. 2016 Feb;31(2):172-181. doi: 10.1007/s11606-015-3508-y.

Teaching Medical Students to Help Patients Quit Smoking: Outcomes of a 10-School 
Randomized Controlled Trial.

Ockene JK(1), Hayes RB(2), Churchill LC(2), Crawford SL(2), Jolicoeur DG(2), 
Murray DM(3), Shoben AB(4), David SP(5), Ferguson KJ(6), Huggett KN(7), Adams 
M(8), Okuliar CA(8), Gross RL(8), Bass PF 3rd(9), Greenberg RB(10), Leone 
FT(11), Okuyemi KS(12), Rudy DW(13), Waugh JB(14), Geller AC(15).

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive and Behavioral Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
University of Massachusetts Medical School, 55 Lake Avenue North, Worcester, MA, 
01655, USA. Judith.Ockene@umassmed.edu.
(2)Division of Preventive and Behavioral Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
University of Massachusetts Medical School, 55 Lake Avenue North, Worcester, MA, 
01655, USA.
(3)Biostatistics and Bioinformatics Branch; Division of Intramural Population 
Health Research, Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and 
Human Development, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, USA.
(4)Division of Biostatistics, College of Public Health, The Ohio State 
University, Columbus, OH, USA.
(5)Center for Education & Research in Family and Community Medicine, Division of 
General Medical Disciplines, Department of Medicine, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA, USA.
(6)University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Creighton University School of Medicine, Omaha, NE, 
USA.
(8)Department of Medicine, Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, DC, USA.
(9)Louisiana State University Health Shreveport, Shreveport, LA, USA.
(10)University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY, USA.
(11)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Medicine, Perelman School 
of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(12)Department of Family and Community Health, University of Minnesota School of 
Medicine, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(13)University of Kentucky College of Medicine, Lexington, KY, USA.
(14)Clinical and Diagnostics Sciences Department, School of Health Professions, 
UAB Lung Health Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 
USA.
(15)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2016 Feb;31(2):144-6.

BACKGROUND: Early in medical education, physicians must develop competencies 
needed for tobacco dependence treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of a multi-modal tobacco dependence treatment 
curriculum on medical students' counseling skills.
DESIGN: A group-randomized controlled trial (2010-2014) included ten U.S. 
medical schools that were randomized to receive either multi-modal tobacco 
treatment education (MME) or traditional tobacco treatment education (TE).
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Students from the classes of 2012 and 2014 at ten medical 
schools participated. Students from the class of 2012 (N = 1345) completed 
objective structured clinical examinations (OSCEs), and 50 % (N = 660) were 
randomly selected for pre-intervention evaluation. A total of 72.9 % of eligible 
students (N = 1096) from the class of 2014 completed an OSCE and 69.7 % 
(N = 1047) completed pre and post surveys.
INTERVENTIONS: The MME included a Web-based course, a role-play classroom 
demonstration, and a clerkship booster session. Clerkship preceptors in MME 
schools participated in an academic detailing module and were encouraged to be 
role models for third-year students.
MEASUREMENTS: The primary outcome was student tobacco treatment skills using the 
5As measured by an objective structured clinical examination (OSCE) scored on a 
33-item behavior checklist. Secondary outcomes were student self-reported skills 
for performing 5As and pharmacotherapy counseling.
RESULTS: Although the difference was not statistically significant, MME students 
completed more tobacco counseling behaviors on the OSCE checklist (mean 8.7 [SE 
0.6] vs. mean 8.0 [SE 0.6], p = 0.52) than TE students. Several of the 
individual Assist and Arrange items were significantly more likely to have been 
completed by MME students, including suggesting behavioral strategies (11.8 % 
vs. 4.5 %, p < 0.001) and providing information regarding quitline (21.0 % vs. 
3.8 %, p < 0.001). MME students reported higher self-efficacy for Assist, 
Arrange, and Pharmacotherapy counseling items (ps ≤0.05).
LIMITATIONS: Inclusion of only ten schools limits generalizability.
CONCLUSIONS: Subsequent interventions should incorporate lessons learned from 
this first randomized controlled trial of a multi-modal longitudinal tobacco 
treatment curriculum in multiple U.S. medical schools. NIH Trial Registry 
Number: NCT01905618.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-015-3508-y
PMCID: PMC4720645
PMID: 26391030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Gen Intern Med. 2018 Jun;33(6):906-913. doi: 10.1007/s11606-018-4305-1.
Epub  2018 Feb 16.

Longitudinal Analysis of Racial/Ethnic Trends in Quality Outcomes in Community 
Health Centers, 2009-2014.

Cole MB(1)(2), Wright B(3), Wilson IB(4), Galárraga O(4), Trivedi AN(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Law, Policy, & Management, Boston University School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA. mbcole@bu.edu.
(2)Department of Health Services, Policy, & Practice, Brown University School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA. mbcole@bu.edu.
(3)Department of Health Management and Policy, University of Iowa, Iowa City, 
IA, USA.
(4)Department of Health Services, Policy, & Practice, Brown University School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: To monitor progress towards eliminating health disparities, 
community health centers have reported on hypertension control, diabetes 
control, and birthweight by race and ethnicity since 2008.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate racial/ethnic time trends in quality outcomes in health 
centers and to assess both within- and between-center disparities in outcomes.
DESIGN AND SAMPLE: Using 2009-2014 data from all US health centers (n = 1047 
centers, serving 19.6 million patients/year), we evaluated racial/ethnic time 
trends in quality outcomes for health centers and assessed within- and 
between-center disparities.
MAIN MEASURES: Percentage of patients achieving control of blood 
pressure < 140/90 mmHg among hypertensive persons, control of glycosylated 
hemoglobin ≤ 9.0% among diabetic persons, and birthweight ≥ 2500 g. All outcomes 
were reported by race/ethnicity.
KEY RESULTS: There was no evidence of improved outcomes among racial/ethnic 
subgroups from 2009 to 2014, though electronic health record adoption, medical 
recognition, and insurance coverage rates increased substantially. Two 
exceptions were increased rates of normal birthweight for black patients (87.0% 
to 88.8%, or 0.3 percentage points/year, p = 0.02) and decreased rates of 
diabetes control for white patients (74.2% to 69.5%, or -1.0 percentage 
points/year, p < 0.01). Within centers, the largest racial/ethnic disparities in 
2009 were white/black disparities in hypertension control (8.7 percentage 
points, 95% CI 7.4-10.1), white/black disparities in diabetes control (3.4 
percentage points, 95% CI 2.0-4.7), and white/Hispanic disparities in diabetes 
control (4.4 percentage points, 95% CI 2.8-6.0). All disparities remained 
statistically unchanged from 2009 to 2014. White patients were more likely to be 
seen at a health center in the top performance quintile compared with black and 
Hispanic patients (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Though quality outcomes in health centers continued to compare 
favorably to other care settings, we found no evidence of improved quality or 
reduced disparities in diabetes control, hypertension control, or birthweight 
from 2009 to 2014. Within- and between-center racial/ethnic disparities in 
quality were evident, and both should be targeted in future interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-018-4305-1
PMCID: PMC5975141
PMID: 29453528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We disclose that (1) Dr. Wilson helped Pfizer to 
organize and run a 1-day meeting on risk-benefit communication in 2016, for 
which he was paid as a consultant, and (2) Dr. Cole was employed part time by 
The Lewin Group—a subsidiary of Optum—from 2013 to 2017. All remaining authors 
declare that they do not have a conflict of interest.


43. Int J Mol Sci. 2018 Apr 1;19(4):1047. doi: 10.3390/ijms19041047.

Mixture Concentration-Response Modeling Reveals Antagonistic Effects of 
Estradiol and Genistein in Combination on Brain Aromatase Gene (cyp19a1b) in 
Zebrafish.

Hinfray N(1), Tebby C(2), Piccini B(3), Bourgine G(4), Aït-Aïssa S(5), Porcher 
JM(6), Pakdel F(7), Brion F(8).

Author information:
(1)Institut National de l'Environnement Industriel et des Risques (INERIS), 
Unité d'Ecotoxicologie in vitro et in vivo, 60550 Verneuil-en-Halatte, France. 
nathalie.hinfray@ineris.fr.
(2)Institut National de l'Environnement Industriel et des Risques (INERIS), 
Unité de modélisation pour la Toxicologie et l'Ecotoxicologie, 60550 
Verneuil-en-Halatte, France. cleo.tebby@ineris.fr.
(3)Institut National de l'Environnement Industriel et des Risques (INERIS), 
Unité d'Ecotoxicologie in vitro et in vivo, 60550 Verneuil-en-Halatte, France. 
benjamin.piccini@ineris.fr.
(4)Institut de Recherche en Santé, Environnement et Travail (IRSET), Inserm 
U1085, Unité Transcription, Environnement et Cancer (TREC), Université de Rennes 
1, 35000 Rennes, France. gaelle.bourgine@univ-rennes1.fr.
(5)Institut National de l'Environnement Industriel et des Risques (INERIS), 
Unité d'Ecotoxicologie in vitro et in vivo, 60550 Verneuil-en-Halatte, France. 
selim.ait-aissa@ineris.fr.
(6)Institut National de l'Environnement Industriel et des Risques (INERIS), 
Unité d'Ecotoxicologie in vitro et in vivo, 60550 Verneuil-en-Halatte, France. 
jean-marc.porcher@ineris.fr.
(7)Institut de Recherche en Santé, Environnement et Travail (IRSET), Inserm 
U1085, Unité Transcription, Environnement et Cancer (TREC), Université de Rennes 
1, 35000 Rennes, France. farzad.pakdel@univ-rennes1.fr.
(8)Institut National de l'Environnement Industriel et des Risques (INERIS), 
Unité d'Ecotoxicologie in vitro et in vivo, 60550 Verneuil-en-Halatte, France. 
francois.brion@ineris.fr.

Comprehension of compound interactions in mixtures is of increasing interest to 
scientists, especially from a perspective of mixture risk assessment. However, 
most of conducted studies have been dedicated to the effects on gonads, while 
only few of them were. interested in the effects on the central nervous system 
which is a known target for estrogenic compounds. In the present study, the 
effects of estradiol (E2), a natural estrogen, and genistein (GEN), a 
phyto-estrogen, on the brain ER-regulated cyp19a1b gene in radial glial cells 
were investigated alone and in mixtures. For that, zebrafish-specific in vitro 
and in vivo bioassays were used. In U251-MG transactivation assays, E2 and GEN 
produced antagonistic effects at low mixture concentrations. In the cyp19a1b-GFP 
transgenic zebrafish, this antagonism was observed at all ratios and all 
concentrations of mixtures, confirming the in vitro effects. In the present 
study, we confirm (i) that our in vitro and in vivo biological models are 
valuable complementary tools to assess the estrogenic potency of chemicals both 
alone and in mixtures; (ii) the usefulness of the ray design approach combined 
with the concentration-addition modeling to highlight interactions between 
mixture components.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms19041047
PMCID: PMC5979603
PMID: 29614754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


44. J Gen Physiol. 2018 Aug 6;150(8):1047-1049. doi: 10.1085/jgp.201812151. Epub 
2018 Jul 20.

Influences: Sodium channel excitement.

Mandel G(1).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR mandelg@ohsu.edu.

Mandel reflects on the influence that a very broad training had on her 
scientific career.

DOI: 10.1085/jgp.201812151
PMCID: PMC6080899
PMID: 30030300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek. 2019 Jul;112(7):1047-1054. doi: 
10.1007/s10482-019-01238-y. Epub 2019 Feb 6.

Tellurirhabdus rosea gen. nov., sp. nov., a new member of the family 
Cytophagaceae isolated from soil in South Korea.

Choi J(1), Yang D(1), Chhetri G(1), Cha S(1), Seo T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Dongguk University-Seoul, Goyang, 10326, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science, Dongguk University-Seoul, Goyang, 10326, South 
Korea. tseo@dongguk.edu.

Strain U15T, rod-shaped, catalase and oxidase positive, non-motile, hot pink 
pigmented, Gram-negative bacterium, was isolated from soil of Udo port, Udo 
Island, South Korea. Growth was observed at 10-48 °C, pH 6-11, and 0% (w/v) 
NaCl. Optimum growth conditions are 30-40 °C, pH 7-10, and 0% (w/v) NaCl. 
Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA sequences showed that strain U15T forms 
a distinct clade with type strains of the family Cytophagaceae, with 
similarities below 89%. The major polar lipids are phosphatidylethanolamine and 
phosphatidylserine. Strain U15T was found to contain MK-7 as the only 
menaquinone, and iso-C15:0, C16:1ω5c, iso-C17:0 3-OH and summed feature 3 
(comprising C16:1ω7c and/or C16:1ω6c) as the major fatty acids (> 10%). The DNA 
G + C content of strain U15T was determined to be 54.3 mol%. Based on the 
phylogenetic, phenotypic characteristics and chemotaxonomic analysis data, 
strain U15T (= KCTC 62116T = JCM 32361T) should be classified as representing a 
novel species of a novel genus within the family Cytophagaceae for which the 
name Tellurirhabdus rosea gen. nov., sp. nov., is proposed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10482-019-01238-y
PMID: 30725326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Plant Dis. 2004 Sep;88(9):1046. doi: 10.1094/PDIS.2004.88.9.1046C.

Rubber Tree (Hevea brasiliensis) Bark Necrosis Syndrome I: Still No Evidence of 
a Biotic Causal Agent.

Pellegrin F(1), Nandris D(1), Chrestin H(1), Duran-Vila N(2).

Author information:
(1)IRD, Montpellier, France.
(2)IVIA, Valencia, Spain.

The main constraint in rubber plantations worldwide is the cessation of latex 
production because of two syndromes: (i) tapping panel dryness (TPD), a 
reversible physiological response to overexploitation; and (ii) bark necrosis 
(BN), an irreversible syndrome spreading from the collar toward the tapping cut. 
Early BN symptoms develop in the inner phloem tissues but never affect the 
cambium. Necrotic patches appear in the outer phloem, inducing bark cracking and 
peeling, but these alterations never lead to tree death. BN spreads gradually to 
neighboring rubber trees, and evidence of linear disease centers suggest that a 
pathogen may be involved, possibly transmitted by the tapping knife. Several 
previous etiological investigations (fungi, phytoplasma, bacteria, and virus) 
were performed (3) on leaves, bark, and latex using different methods (e.g., 
isolation, transmission, chemical treatments, and optic and electron microscope 
studies). Recent works focused on mechanically transmissible pathogens, such as 
viroid (2) or virus/double strand RNA, using RNA extraction (nonionic cellulose 
and appropriate ethanol concentrations) and treatment with RNase A, followed 
with sequential polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (s-PAGE), reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), degenerate oligonucleotide 
primer-PCR (DOP-PCR), and cloning and sequence analysis. While numerous 
viroid-like (between 250 and 400 nucleotides) and double strand virus-like 
(1,800 bp) low-molecular-weight RNAs were observed, no definite correlation was 
found with the BN status of trees. Sequencing of the various isolated RNAs only 
identified plasmids, nonpathogenic bacteria and yeasts, but none of the 
suspected pathogens. In addition, previous and recent transmission trials 
(tapping knife disinfection, bud grafting, bark implantation, and etc.) failed 
to confirm the involvement of a biotic agent. In conclusion, since these 
etiological investigations were inconclusive, a physiological disease is now 
suspected that involves exogenous stresses, nonoptimal vascular relations at the 
rootstock/scion junction and impaired cyanide metabolism (1,4). References: (1) 
H. Chrestin et al. Plant Dis. 88:1047, 2004. (2) N. Duran-Vila et al. J. Gen. 
Virol. 69:3069, 1988. (3) D. Nandris et al. Eur. J. For. Pathol. 21:340, 1991. 
(4) D. Nandris et al. Plant Dis. 88:1047, 2004.

DOI: 10.1094/PDIS.2004.88.9.1046C
PMID: 30812229


47. Theranostics. 2019 Jan 30;9(4):1047-1065. doi: 10.7150/thno.29820.
eCollection  2019.

GSH-sensitive Pt(IV) prodrug-loaded phase-transitional nanoparticles with a 
hybrid lipid-polymer shell for precise theranostics against ovarian cancer.

Huang H(1), Dong Y(1), Zhang Y(1), Ru D(1), Wu Z(1), Zhang J(1), Shen M(1), Duan 
Y(1), Sun Y(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oncogenes and Related Genes, Shanghai Cancer 
Institute, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 
Shanghai 200032, People's Republic of China.

Background: Platinum (II) (Pt(II))-based anticancer drugs dominate the 
chemotherapy field of ovarian cancer. However, the patient's quality of life has 
severely limited owing to dose-limiting toxicities and the advanced disease at 
the time of diagnosis. Multifunctional tumor-targeted nanosized ultrasound 
contrast agents (glutathione (GSH)-sensitive platinum (IV) (Pt(IV)) 
prodrug-loaded phase-transitional nanoparticles, Pt(IV) NP-cRGD) were developed 
for precise theranostics against ovarian cancer. Methods: Pt(IV) NP-cRGD were 
composed of a perfluorohexane (PFH) liquid core, a hybrid lipid-polymer shell 
with PLGA12k-PEG2k and DSPE-PEG1k-Pt(IV), and an active targeting ligand, the 
cRGD peptide (PLGA: poly(lactic-co-glycolic acid), PEG: polyethylene glycol, 
DSPE: 1,2-distearoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine, cRGD: cyclic 
Arg-Gly-Asp). Pt(IV), a popular alternative to Pt(II), was covalently attached 
to DSPE-PEG1k to form the prodrug, which fine-tuned lipophilicity and improved 
cellular uptake. The potential of Pt(IV) NP-cRGD as contrast agents for 
ultrasound (US) imaging was assessed in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, studies on 
the antitumor efficiency and antitumor mechanism of Pt(IV) NP-cRGD assisted by 
US were carried out. Results: Pt(IV) NP-cRGD exhibited strong echogenic signals 
and excellent echo persistence under an US field. In addition, the GSH-sensitive 
and US-triggered drug delivery system maximized the therapeutic effect while 
reducing the toxicity of chemotherapy. The mechanistic studies confirmed that 
Pt(IV) NP-cRGD with US consumed GSH and enhanced reactive oxy gen species (ROS) 
levels, which further causes mitochondria-mediated apoptosis. Conclusion: A 
multifunctional nanoplatform based on phase-transitional Pt(IV) NP-cRGD with US 
exhibited excellent echogenic signals, brilliant therapeutic efficacy and 
limited side effect, suggesting precise theranostics against ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.7150/thno.29820
PMCID: PMC6401401
PMID: 30867815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


48. Gen Comp Endocrinol. 2019 Jun 1;277:130-140. doi:
10.1016/j.ygcen.2019.04.003.  Epub 2019 Apr 2.

Adamts9 is necessary for ovarian development in zebrafish.

Carter NJ(1), Roach ZA(1), Byrnes MM(1), Zhu Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, East Carolina University, Greenville 27858, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Biology, East Carolina University, Greenville 27858, NC, USA. 
Electronic address: zhuy@ecu.edu.

Expression of adamts9 (A disintegrin and metalloprotease with thrombospondin 
type-1 motif, member 9) increases dramatically in the somatic cells surrounding 
oocytes during ovulation in vertebrates from zebrafish to human. However, the 
function of Adamts9 during ovulation has not been determined due to the 
embryonic lethality of knockouts in mice and Drosophila. To identify the role of 
Adamts9 during ovulation we generated knockout (adamts9-/-) zebrafish using 
CRISPR/Cas9 and characterized the effects of the mutation. From 1047 fish 
generated by crossing adamts9+/- pairs, we found significantly fewer adult 
adamts9-/- fish (4%) than predicted by Mendelian ratios (25%). Of the mutants 
found, there was a significant male bias (82%). Only 3 female mutants were 
identified (7%), and they had small ovaries with few stage III and IV oocytes 
compared to wildtype (wt) counterparts of comparable size and age. Astoundingly, 
the remaining mutants (11%) did not appear to have normal testis or ovaries. 
Instead there was a pair of transparent, ovarian-like membranous shells that 
filled the abdominal cavity. Histological examination confirmed that shells were 
largely empty with no internal structure. Surprisingly, seminiferous tubules and 
various spermatocytes including mature spermatozoa were observed on the 
periphery of these transparent shells. No female or female like knockouts were 
observed to release eggs, and no ovulated oocytes were observed in histological 
sections. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an adamts9 global 
knockout model in any adult vertebrates and the first description of how gonadal 
sex and structure are affected- highlighting the importance of Adamts9 during 
gonadal development and the value of zebrafish as a model organism.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygcen.2019.04.003
PMID: 30951722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Gen Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2020 Sep;68(9):1047-1050. doi: 
10.1007/s11748-019-01200-9. Epub 2019 Sep 9.

Left superior pulmonary vein stump thrombosis and right renal infarction after 
left upper lobectomy: case report and literature review.

Song CY(1), Kimura D(2), Sato F(1), Sakai T(1), Tsushima T(1), Fukuda I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Hirosaki University, 5 Zaifu-cho, Hirosaki, 036-8562, Aomori, Japan.
(2)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Hirosaki University, 5 Zaifu-cho, Hirosaki, 036-8562, Aomori, Japan. 
d-suke@hirosaki-u.ac.jp.

Left upper lobectomy (LUL) has been considered to have a higher risk of thrombus 
formation in the pulmonary vein stump (PVS) than other lobectomies. A case of 
thrombus formation in the PVS and right renal infarction detected by 
contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) 12 days after LUL is presented. The 
thrombus in the PVS was considered to be related to the renal infarction because 
of the lack of other potential explanations. After intravenous heparin treatment 
for 1 week and continuous oral anticoagulation, the thrombus in the PVS became 
smaller 3 months after the operation, and it basically disappeared after 1 year. 
Scar formation was detected in the area of renal infarction 3 months after the 
operation, and no specific change was detected from then on. One should consider 
performing postoperative chest and abdominal CECT routinely within 1 week after 
LUL, and, if thrombosis is found, antithrombotic therapy might then be given.

DOI: 10.1007/s11748-019-01200-9
PMID: 31502090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Gen Virol. 2020 Oct;101(10):1047-1055. doi: 10.1099/jgv.0.001470.

Hantavirus infection in type I interferon receptor-deficient (A129) mice.

Dowall SD(1), Graham VA(1), Aram M(1), Findlay-Wilson S(1), Salguero FJ(1), 
Emery K(1), Hewson R(1).

Author information:
(1)National Infection Service, Public Health England, Porton Down, Salisbury, 
Wiltshire SP4 0JG, UK.

Type I interferon receptor knockout mice (strain A129) were assessed as a 
disease model of hantavirus infection. A range of infection routes 
(intramuscular, intraperitoneal and intranasal) were assessed using minimally 
passaged Seoul virus (strain Humber). Dissemination of virus to the spleen, 
kidney and lung was observed at 5 days after intramuscular and intraperitoneal 
challenge, which was resolved by day 14. In contrast, intranasal challenge of 
A129 mice demonstrated virus tropism to the lung, which was maintained to day 14 
post-challenge. These data support the use of the A129 mouse model for future 
infection studies and the in vivo evaluation of interventions.

DOI: 10.1099/jgv.0.001470
PMCID: PMC7660455
PMID: 32667279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


51. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2021 Sep;71(9). doi: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004988.

Pengzhenrongella sicca gen. nov., sp. nov., a new member of suborder 
Micrococcineae isolated from High Arctic tundra soil.

Kim MC(1)(2), Ju YH(3), Hwang UA(1), Liu P(2), Pak SH(1), Peng F(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Forest Science, Kim Il Sung University, Pyongyang, Democratic 
People's Republic of Korea.
(2)China Center for Type Culture Collection (CCTCC), College of Life Science, 
Wuhan University, Wuhan 430072, PR China.
(3)Faculty of Chemistry, Kim Il Sung University, Pyongyang, Democratic People's 
Republic of Korea.

A yellow bacterial strain, designated LRZ-2T, was isolated from High Arctic 
tundra near the settlement Ny-Ålesund in the Svalbard Archipelago, Norway. The 
cells were Gram-stain-positive, aerobic and non-sporulating. Phylogenetic 
analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequence comparisons revealed that strain LRZ-2T 
represented a novel member of the suborder Micrococcineae. Its nearest 
phylogenetic neighbours were the members of the genus Luteimicrobium, with 16S 
rRNA gene sequence similarity of 95.3-96.9 %. The average nucleotide identity 
and digital DNA-DNA hybridization values between the genomes of strain LRZ-2T 
and its closely related strains were 77.4-74.3 % and 21.4-19.6 %, respectively. 
The DNA G+C content was 72.4 mol%. The peptidoglycan type of the isolate was A4β 
with an interpeptide bridge comprising l-ornithine and d-glutamic acid. The 
predominant menaquinone was MK-9 (H4) and the major fatty acids were 
anteiso-C15 : 0, C16 : 0, anteiso-C15 : 1 A, anteiso-C17 : 0 and iso-C15 : 0. 
The polar lipids were diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylinositol, 
phosphatidylinositol mannoside, phosphatidylinositol dimannoside, unidentified 
phosphoglycolipid, four unidentified phospholipids and two unidentified polar 
lipids. Strain LRZ-2T showed a 16S rRNA gene signature pattern consisting of 
nucleotides at positions 120 (A), 131-231 (C-G), 196 (C), 342-347 (C-G), 444-490 
(A-U), 580-761 (C-G), 602-636 (C-G), 670-736 (A-U), 822-878 (G-C), 823-877 
(G-C), 826-874 (C-G), 827 (U), 843 (C), 950-1231 (U-A), 1047-1210 (G-C), 1109 
(C), 1145 (G), 1309-1328 (G-C), 1361 (G) and 1383 (C), which clearly 
distinguished it from all genera previously reported in the suborder 
Micrococcineae. On the basis of the phylogenetic, phenotypic and chemotaxonomic 
data, strain LRZ-2T is considered to represent a novel species of a new genus, 
for which the name Pengzhenrongella sicca gen. nov., sp. nov. is proposed. The 
type strain of Pengzhenrongella sicca is LRZ-2T (=CCTCC AB 2012163T=DSM 
100332T).

DOI: 10.1099/ijsem.0.004988
PMID: 34559624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Int J Gen Med. 2022 Feb 2;15:1047-1056. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S352304.
eCollection  2022.

Biomechanical Effects of Pedicle Screw Positioning on the Surgical Segment in 
Models After Oblique Lumbar Interbody Fusion: An in-silico Study.

Xu C(#)(1), Huang C(#)(2), Cai P(3), Fang Z(4), Wei Z(2), Liu F(2), Li J(1)(2), 
Liu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Spine Surgery, Shanghai Changzheng Hospital, Naval Medical 
University, Shanghai, 200003, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, Hospital (T.C.M) Affiliated to Southwest Medical 
University, Luzhou, 646000, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Orthopedics, Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China.
(4)Fluid and Power Machinery Key Laboratory of Ministry of Education, Xihua 
University, Chengdu, People's Republic of China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Bilateral pedicle screw (BPS) is the "gold standard" of fixation 
methods for patients with lumbar interbody fusion. Biomechanical deterioration 
initially triggers complications in the surgical segment. Studies proved that 
BPS positions and trajectory changes affect the local biomechanical environment. 
However, no study illustrates the biomechanical effect of insertional screw 
positions' change on the surgical segment.
METHODS: Oblique lumbar interbody fusion (OLIF) with different BPS insertional 
positions has been simulated in a well-validated lumbo-sacral model. Fixation 
stability and stress responses on the surgical segment were evaluated under 
identical loading conditions.
RESULTS: There is no clear variation tendency for the risk of BPS failure and 
the change of strain energy density of the grafted bone. However, shifting the 
insertional screw position close to the surgical segment will increase the range 
of motions (ROM) in the surgical segment and lead to stress concentration of 
bony structures, especially in the caudal side of the surgical segment.
CONCLUSION: Adjusting the insertional position of BPS close to the surgical 
segment in OLIF models will lead to stress concentration of bony structures and 
surgical segmental instability. Therefore, reducing BPS's fixation length was 
not recommended, which may increase the risk of segmental instability, 
non-union, and cage subsidence.

© 2022 Xu et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S352304
PMCID: PMC8818966
PMID: 35140507

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


53. J Gen Fam Med. 2022 Mar 30;23(4):255-260. doi: 10.1002/jgf2.539. eCollection 
2022 Jul.

Frailty and social participation in older citizens in Japan during the COVID-19 
pandemic.

Ozone S(1), Goto R(1), Kawada S(1), Yokoya S(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine University of Tsukuba Tsukuba Japan.

BACKGROUND: This study examined the frailty status of older individuals in Japan 
at 1 year after the onset of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic 
based on involvement in social activities before and during the pandemic.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study analyzed citizens aged 65 and 84 who did not 
require long-term care in January 2021. A self-administered questionnaire was 
mailed to 3000 citizens in Kitaibaraki City, Japan. The questionnaire included 
social participation status in January 2020 and January 2021, the Kihon 
Checklist, working status, and economic status. We classified the respondents 
into the following groups: Nonparticipating, no participation at either time 
point; Discontinued, participation only in 2020; and Continued, participation at 
both time points. We compared the Discontinued and Continued groups in terms of 
Kihon Checklist items using the t-test.
RESULTS: Of 2963 individuals who received the questionnaire, 1307 (44.1%) 
returned it, and 1047 were analyzed. Of the respondents analyzed, 586 (56.0%) 
were in the Nonparticipating group, 254 (24.3%) were in the Discontinued group, 
and 207 (19.8%) were in the Continued group. On the Kihon Checklist, oral 
function and mood differed significantly between the Discontinued and Continued 
groups. The proportion of those with impairment in multiple categories of the 
Kihon Checklist was 12.3% in the Nonparticipating group, 5.5% in the 
Discontinued group, and 3.4% in the Continued group.
CONCLUSIONS: Older individuals who continued participating in social activities 
at 1 year into the COVID-19 pandemic might have a lower risk of frailty in terms 
of oral function and depressed mood.

© 2022 The Authors. Journal of General and Family Medicine published by John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Japan Primary Care Association.

DOI: 10.1002/jgf2.539
PMCID: PMC9110991
PMID: 35600907

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


54. Int J Gen Med. 2022 Aug 8;15:6507-6517. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S370956.
eCollection  2022.

Prevalence of Hypertension and Its Associated Risk Factors Among Patients with 
Rheumatoid Arthritis in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

Al-Ahmari AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, College of Pharmacy, Prince Sattam Bin 
Abdulaziz University, Al-Kharj, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

PURPOSE: Data regarding hypertension prevalence among patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis in Saudi Arabia are scarce. This study was aimed at estimating the 
prevalence of hypertension and its associated risk factors among patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis in Saudi Arabia.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study of adult patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis who presented at the OPD of two major hospitals in Riyadh 
city. Patient information such as demographic characteristics, comorbidities, 
drug use, and other clinical data were captured through medical record review 
and supplemented by patient interviews. Multivariate logistic regression was 
used to identify the significant factors for hypertension.
RESULTS: The prevalence of hypertension was found in 32.35% of the 1490 
rheumatoid arthritis patients who participated in our study. Logistic regression 
analyses revealed that advanced age, female sex, low education level, 
unemployment, smoking, and consulting with physicians less than two times within 
the past 12 months were risk factors for increased hypertension prevalence among 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis. A significantly higher risk of hypertension 
was observed among RA patients with obesity, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, cancer, 
kidney disease, osteoporosis, and Parkinson's disease than among patients 
without these comorbidities.
CONCLUSION: Hypertension is highly prevalent among patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis, and advanced age, sex, low educational level, unemployment, smoking, 
and comorbidities are risk factors for increased hypertension prevalence.

© 2022 Al-Ahmari.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S370956
PMCID: PMC9374201
PMID: 35966507

Conflict of interest statement: The author reports no conflicts of interest in 
this work.


55. Int J Gen Med. 2023 Mar 22;16:1047-1058. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S404914.
eCollection  2023.

Peripheral Mononuclear Cells Surface Markers Evaluation in Different Stages of 
Hepatocellular Carcinoma; in a Trial for Early and Accurate Diagnosis in 
Patients with Post-Hepatitis Liver Cirrhosis and Unremarkable Raised AFP.

Osman HA(1), Nafady-Hego H(2), Nasif KA(3)(4), Ahmed HA(5), Mahmoud EA(6), Abass 
NM(7), Rayan A(8), Mahmoud MA(9), Nafady A(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Medicine and Gastroenterology, Qena Faculty of 
Medicine, South Valley University, Qena, Egypt.
(2)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut 
University, Assiut, Egypt.
(3)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, College of Medicine, King Khalid 
University, Abha, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, Minia, 
Egypt.
(5)Department of Clinical and Chemical Pathology Sohag Faculty of Medicine Sohag 
University, Sohag, Egypt.
(6)Department of Medical Microbiology & Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Sohag 
University, Sohag, Egypt.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Sohag University, 
Sohag, Egypt.
(8)Department of Clinical Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University, 
Assiut, Egypt.
(9)Department of Medical Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, Sohag University, 
Sohag, Egypt.
(10)Department of Clinical and Chemical Pathology, Qena Faculty of Medicine, 
South Valley University, Qena, Egypt.

INTRODUCTION: HCC is frequently diagnosed late, when only palliative treatment 
is available. So, we try to use different immunological markers to identify 
early HCC in patients with unremarkable raised AFP.
METHODS: This study was conducted on 112 participants divided into two equal 
groups: Group I, 56 patients with liver cirrhosis and different stages of HCC; 
Group II, 56 patients with liver cirrhosis. The diagnosis of HCC was based on 
AASLD guidelines. TNM and BCLC classification systems are used for staging of 
HCC.
RESULTS: A significant reduction in the median percentage of lymphocyte subset 
(CD3+, CD4+, CD8+, CD19+) and NK cell percentage (CD56+) has been detected in 
HCC patients (all P < 0.001). In the HCC group the median monocyte 
subpopulations CD14+ CD16- Classical, CD14++ CD16+ Intermediate, and CD14-+ 
CD16++ Non-Classical were 11.7, 4.0, and 3.5, respectively, with marked 
reduction compared with liver cirrhosis group (all P < 0.001). Patients with 
advanced stages (BCLC C and D) were more likely to have significantly higher 
median CD33+ than patients with early stages (BCLC A and B) (P = 0.05); also, 
the median levels of HLA DR+ lymphocytes % in the HCC case group were 21.8 in 
patients with advanced disease (BCLC C and D) and 13.1 in patients with early 
stages of the disease (P = 0.04). Patients with late stage (TNM III) were more 
likely to have significantly higher median CD14+ CD16- Classical monocyte 
subset, CD36+ HLA DR+, and CD36+ CD16- than patients with early stages (TNM I 
and II).
CONCLUSION: Patients with HCC with unremarkable raised AFP showed marked 
reduction in lymphocytes, natural killer cells, and all monocyte subpopulations. 
In addition, patients with advanced HCC showed increased CD33+ and HLA DR+ 
lymphocytes %, CD14+ CD16- Classical monocyte subset, CD36+ HLA DR+, and CD36+ 
CD16- compared with patients with early stages of HCC.

© 2023 Osman et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S404914
PMCID: PMC10040161
PMID: 36987406

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with this work.


56. Int J Gen Med. 2023 Sep 11;16:4109-4120. doi: 10.2147/IJGM.S428580.
eCollection  2023.

KRAS/NRAS Mutations Associated with Distant Metastasis and BRAF/PIK3CA Mutations 
Associated with Poor Tumor Differentiation in Colorectal Cancer.

Zeng J(1)(2), Fan W(3), Li J(1)(2), Wu G(1)(2), Wu H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Meizhou People's Hospital, Meizhou Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Meizhou, People's Republic of China.
(2)Center for Precision Medicine, Meizhou People's Hospital, Meizhou Academy of 
Medical Sciences, Meizhou, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Dongguan Eighth People's Hospital, Dongguan, 
People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: The occurrence, progression, and prognosis of colorectal cancer 
(CRC) are regulated by EGFR-mediated signaling pathways. However, the 
relationship between the core genes (KRAS/NRAS/BRAF/PIK3CA) status in the 
signaling pathways and clinicopathological characteristics of CRC patients in 
Hakka population remains controversial.
METHODS: Patients were genotyped for KRAS (codons 12, 13, 61, 117, and 146), 
NRAS (codons 12, 61, 117, and 146), BRAF (codons 600), and PIK3CA (codons 542, 
545 and 1047) mutations. Clinical records were collected, and 
clinicopathological characteristic associations were analyzed together with 
mutations of studied genes.
RESULTS: Four hundred and eight patients (256 men and 152 women) were included 
in the analysis. At least one mutation in the four genes was detected in 216 
(52.9%) patients, while none was detected in 192 (47.1%) patients. KRAS, NRAS, 
BRAF, and PIK3CA mutation status were detected in 190 (46.6%), 11 (2.7%), 10 
(2.5%), 34 (8.3%) samples, respectively. KRAS exon 2 had the highest proportion 
(62.5%). Age, tumor site, tumor size, lymphovascular invasion, and perineural 
invasion were not associated with gene mutations. KRAS mutations (adjusted OR 
1.675, 95% CI 1.017-2.760, P=0.043) and NRAS mutations (adjusted OR 5.183, 95% 
CI 1.239-21.687, P=0.024) appeared more frequently in patients with distant 
metastasis. BRAF mutations (adjusted OR 7.224, 95% CI 1.356-38.488, P=0.021) and 
PIK3CA mutations (adjusted OR 3.811, 95% CI 1.268-11.455, P=0.017) associated 
with poorly differentiated tumor.
CONCLUSION: KRAS/NRAS mutations are associated with distant metastasis and 
BRAF/PIK3CA mutations are associated with poor tumor differentiation in CRC. And 
the results provided a better understanding between clinicopathological 
characteristics and gene mutations in CRC patients.

© 2023 Zeng et al.

DOI: 10.2147/IJGM.S428580
PMCID: PMC10503567
PMID: 37720173

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests in this work.


57. J Gen Intern Med. 2024 Jan 8. doi: 10.1007/s11606-023-08597-3. Online ahead
of  print.

Clinician use of the Statin Choice Shared Decision-making Encounter Tool in a 
Major Health System.

Martinez KA(1), Montori VM(2), Rodriguez F(3), Tereshchenko LG(4)(5), Kovach 
JD(4), Hurwitz HM(6), Rothberg MB(7).

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Center for Value-Based Care Research, Cleveland, OH, USA. 
martink12@ccf.org.
(2)Knowledge and Evaluation Research Unit, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine and the Cardiovascular Institute, 
Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Lerner Research Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(5)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Heart, Vascular & Thoracic Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(6)Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Center, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(7)Cleveland Clinic Center for Value-Based Care Research, Cleveland, OH, USA.

BACKGROUND: Effective shared decision-making (SDM) tools for use during clinical 
encounters are available, but, outside of study settings, little is known about 
clinician use of these tools in practice.
OBJECTIVE: To describe real-world use of an SDM encounter tool for statin 
prescribing, Statin Choice, embedded into the workflow of an electronic health 
record.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANTS: Clinicians and their statin-eligible patients who had outpatient 
encounters between January 2020 and June 2021 in Cleveland Clinic Health System.
MAIN MEASURES: Clinician use of Statin Choice was recorded within the Epic 
record system. We categorized each patient's 10-year atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease risk into low (< 5%), borderline (5-7.5%), intermediate 
(7.5-20%), and high (≥ 20%). Other patient factors included age, sex, insurance, 
and race. We used mixed effects logistic regression to assess the odds of using 
Statin Choice for statin-eligible patients, accounting for clustering by 
clinician and site. We generated a residual intraclass correlation coefficient 
(ICC) to characterize the impact of the clinician on Statin Choice use.
KEY RESULTS: Statin Choice was used in 7% of 68,505 eligible patients. Of 1047 
clinicians, 48% used Statin Choice with ≥ 1 patient, and these clinicians used 
it with a median 9% of their patients (interquartile range: 3-22%). In the mixed 
effects logistic regression model, patient age (adjusted OR per year: 1.04; 
95%CI 1.03-1.04) and 10-year ASVCD risk (aOR for 5-7.5% versus < 5% risk: 1.28; 
95%CI: 1.14-1.44) were associated with use of Statin Choice. Black versus White 
race was associated with a lower odds of Statin Choice use (aOR: 0.83; 95%CI: 
0.73-0.95), as was female versus male sex (aOR: 0.83; 95%CI: 0.76-0.90). The 
model ICC demonstrated that 53% of the variation in use of Statin Choice was 
clinician-driven.
CONCLUSIONS: Patient factors, including race and sex, were associated with 
clinician use of Statin Choice; half the variation in use was attributable to 
individual clinicians.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Society of General Internal 
Medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-023-08597-3
PMID: 38191974
