1. Mod Probl Ophthalmol. 1975;14:435-8.

Retrobulbar connective tissue in experimental endocrine exophthalmos.

Prame G.

PMID: 126367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Exp Eye Res. 1967 Apr;6(2):171-8. doi: 10.1016/s0014-4835(67)80069-1.

Glycosaminoglycans of retrobulbar tissue of the crucian carp (Carassius 
carassius L.).

Prame G.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4835(67)80069-1
PMID: 4225811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Exp Eye Res. 1968 Apr;7(2):247-63. doi: 10.1016/s0014-4835(68)80075-2.

Retrobulbar connective tissue in TSH-induced exophthalmos in the crucian carp 
(Carassius carassius L.).

Prame G.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4835(68)80075-2
PMID: 4230853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Exp Eye Res. 1968 Jul;7(3):342-53. doi: 10.1016/s0014-4835(68)80048-x.

Effects of hypophysectomy and thyroxine on volume and biochemistry of orbital 
tissue in the crucian carp (Carassius carassius L.).

Frisén L, Prame G.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4835(68)80048-x
PMID: 4237750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Scand J Urol Nephrol. 1971;5(2):146-53. doi: 10.3109/00365597109133593.

Exophthalmus in chronic renal insufficiency.

Schmidt P, Stobaeus N, Prame G, Schittek F.

DOI: 10.3109/00365597109133593
PMID: 4999173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Exp Eye Res. 1969 Jan;8(1):21-6. doi: 10.1016/s0014-4835(69)80076-x.

Proteins in retrobulbar tissue fluid from crucian carps with EPS-induced 
exophthalmos.

Prame G.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4835(69)80076-x
PMID: 5813032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Exp Eye Res. 1966 Jan;5(1):79-85. doi: 10.1016/s0014-4835(66)80023-4.

On the glycosaminoglycans of human retrobulbar tissue.

Prame G, Gardell S, Antonopoulos CA.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-4835(66)80023-4
PMID: 5929585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand Suppl. 1984;126:1-55. doi:
10.3109/00016348409156383.

Drug use during pregnancy and breast-feeding. A classification system for drug 
information.

Berglund F, Flodh H, Lundborg P, Prame B, Sannerstedt R.

Since 1978 the Swedish catalogue of registered pharmaceutical specialties (FASS) 
has carried a special section entitled "Pregnancy and breast-feeding" in each 
product presentation, intended to form an aid for the prescription of drugs to 
women during childbearing and lactation. After a brief review of transplacental 
transport and milk secretion, reproduction-toxicology studies in animals, and 
methods for clinical evaluation of drugs for use during pregnancy, the 
classification system is presented. On the basis of available data with regard 
to effects on early and late stages of pregnancy and labour, all the 
pharmaceutical specialties concerned are assigned to one of the following 
pregnancy categories: A, B 1, B 2, B 3, C or D. The letters refer to information 
based on findings in man, and the figures to information based on animal data. 
For drugs in categories B 3, C or D any harmful effects observed or likely to 
occur in man or animals are to be specified. The pregnancy categories are 
defined as follows: Category A. Drugs which may be assumed to have been used by 
a large number of pregnant women and women of child-bearing age, without any 
form of definite disturbance in the reproductive process having been noted so 
far, e.g. an increased incidence of malformations or other direct or indirect 
harmful effects on the fetus. Category B. Drugs which may be assumed to have 
been used by only a limited number of pregnant women and women of child-bearing 
age, without any form of definite disturbance in the reproduction process having 
been noted so far, e.g. an increased incidence of malformations or other direct 
or indirect harmful effects on the fetus. Category C. Drugs which by their 
pharmacological effects have caused, or must be suspected of causing 
disturbances in the reproduction process that may involve risk to the fetus 
without being directly teratogenic. Category D. Drugs which have caused an 
increased incidence of fetal malformations or other permanent damage in man or 
which on the basis of e.g. reproduction-toxicology studies must be suspected of 
doing so. This category comprises drugs with primary teratogenic effects. If the 
drug also has pharmacological effects that may directly or indirectly have a 
harmful effect on the fetus, this must also be stated. As experience of effects 
of drugs in Category B is limited, results of reproduction-toxicology studies in 
animals are indicated by allocation to one of three subgroups according to the 
following definitions: Category B 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

PIP: Since 1978, the Swedish catalogue of registered pharmaceutical preparations 
(FASS) has classified drugs in terms of their effects on reproduction and 
breastfeeding. On the basis of available data concerning effects on pregnancy 
and labor, pharmaceutical specialties are asigned to 1 of the following 
pregnancy categories: A--drugs that have been used by large numbers of pregnant 
women and women of childbearing age with no evidence of any disturbance in the 
reproductive process; B--drugs that have been used by only a limited number of 
pregnant and reproductive age women, yet have not been noted to cause any 
harmful effects on fetal development; C--drugs whose pharmacological effects are 
suspected to cause disturbances in the reproductive process that may involve 
risk to the fetus without being directly teratogenic; and D--drugs that, on the 
basis of reproduction-toxicology studies, are suspected to have caused an 
increased incidence of fetal malformations. Of the 675 active substances 
identified in the drugs included in FASS 1984, 205 have been allocated to 
Category A, 183 to Category A, 183 to Category B, 118 to Category C, and 70 to 
Category D. Category C includes beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents, 
benzothiadiazines and related diuretics, dicoumarl, sufonamides, rifampicin, 
chloramphenicol, glucocorticoids, antithyroid substances, benzodiazepines, 
narcotic analgetics, ergotamine, and inhibitors of prostglandin synthesis; 
Category D includes ethanol, quinine and quinidine, chloroquine and 
hydroxycloroquine, warfarin, cytostatic drugs, tetracyclines, aminoglycosides, 
androgens and other anabolic steriods, gestagens, diethylstilbestrol, 
penicillamine, phenobarbital, and anticonvulsants. With respect to use during 
breastfeeding, drugs are allocated to the following 4 groups: Group I--does not 
enter breast milk; Group II--enters breast milk but is unlikely to affect the 
infant; Group III--enters breast milk in such quantities that there is risk of 
affecting the infant; and Group IV--not known whether it enters breast milk. 
Group IV comprises over 50% of the drugs listed.

DOI: 10.3109/00016348409156383
PMID: 6393685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 1995;48(3-4):177-8. doi: 10.1007/BF00198294.

Classification of drugs for teratogenic risk.

Alván G(1), Danielsson BR, Kihlström I, Lundborg P, Prame B, Ridley E, 
Sannerstedt R.

Author information:
(1)LINFO, Drug Information Ltd., Stockholm, Sweden.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00198294
PMID: 7589037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Drug Saf. 1996 Feb;14(2):69-77. doi: 10.2165/00002018-199614020-00001.

Drugs during pregnancy: an issue of risk classification and information to 
prescribers.

Sannerstedt R(1), Lundborg P, Danielsson BR, Kihlström I, Alván G, Prame B, 
Ridley E.

Author information:
(1)LINFO (Drug Information Ltd, Stockholm, Sweden.

The Swedish system for the classification of fetal risk of drugs was the first 
of its kind and was implemented in 1978. Drugs for use in pregnant women are 
classified in 4 general categories--A to D. The US Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) introduced a system in 1979 also using the letters A to D, together with 
an X category. However, the definitions differ considerably between the FDA 
system and the Swedish system, resulting in a very different allocation of drugs 
to the respective categories. In the Swedish system, category A includes drugs 
that have been extensively used and/or for which there are reliable clinical 
data indicating no evidence of disturbance of the reproductive process. Category 
B includes drugs for which data from pregnant women are insufficient for making 
any solid estimation of human teratogenic risk, and classification is therefore 
based on animal data, with allocation to 3 subgroups. For products in category 
C, the pharmacological action of the drug may have undesirable effects on the 
human fetus or newborn infant. Finally, category D contains drugs for which 
human data indicate an increased incidence of malformations. The categorisation 
statement is always followed by a short explanatory text. In contrast to the FDA 
system, the Swedish system has been well accepted, as judged by an interview 
study including 934 physicians and pharmacists. We believe that much of the 
American dissatisfaction may be a consequence of shortcomings in the category 
definitions of the FDA system. The FDA system requires an unrealistically high 
quality of data, e.g. the availability of controlled studies in pregnant women 
that fail to demonstrate a risk to the fetus are needed for a drug to be 
assigned to category A. Consequently, the majority of drugs on the US market are 
allocated to category C, interpreted as 'risk cannot be ruled out'. The 
distribution of drugs into the various categories is thus very different between 
the Swedish and FDA systems. We think that the issue of this debate reflects a 
fundamental problem related to public health information: how should a large, 
compounded, changing and difficult to evaluate databank be organised before it 
is made available to professionals and secondarily to lay people?

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-199614020-00001
PMID: 8852521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Immunity. 1997 Feb;6(2):199-208. doi: 10.1016/s1074-7613(00)80426-4.

Characterization of an antigen that is recognized on a melanoma showing partial 
HLA loss by CTL expressing an NK inhibitory receptor.

Ikeda H(1), Lethé B, Lehmann F, van Baren N, Baurain JF, de Smet C, Chambost H, 
Vitale M, Moretta A, Boon T, Coulie PG.

Author information:
(1)Cellular Genetics Unit, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

Melanoma lines MEL.A and MEL.B were derived from metastases removed from patient 
LB33 in 1988 and 1993, respectively. The MEL.A cells express several antigens 
recognized by autologous cytolytic T lymphocytes (CTL) on HLA class I molecules. 
The MEL.B cells have lost expression of all class I molecules except for 
HLA-A24. By stimulating autologous lymphocytes with MEL.B, we obtained an 
HLA-A24-restricted CTL clone that lysed these cells. A novel gene, PRAME, 
encodes the antigen. It is expressed in a large proportion of tumors and also in 
some normal tissues, albeit at a lower level. Surprisingly, the CTL failed to 
lyse MEL.A, even though these cells expressed the gene PRAME. The CTL expresses 
an NK inhibitory receptor that inhibits its lytic activity upon interaction with 
HLA-Cw7 molecules, which are present on MEL.A cells and not on MEL.B. Such CTL, 
active against tumor cells showing partial HLA loss, may constitute an 
intermediate line of anti-tumor defense between the CTL, which recognize highly 
specific tumor antigens, and the NK cells, which recognize HLA loss variants.

DOI: 10.1016/s1074-7613(00)80426-4
PMID: 9047241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Exp Clin Immunogenet. 1998;15(1):19-32. doi: 10.1159/000019050.

The immunogenic properties of melanoma-associated antigens recognized by 
cytotoxic T lymphocytes.

Kirkin AF(1), Dzhandzhugazyan K, Zeuthen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Cell Biology, Danish Cancer Society, Copenhagen, Denmark.

During the last 6 years significant progress has been achieved in the 
identification of melanoma-associated antigens recognized by cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes. These antigens belong the three main groups: tumor-associated 
testis-specific antigens (MAGE, BAGE, GAGE and PRAME), melanocyte 
differentiation antigens (tyrosinase, Melan-A/MART-1, gp100, TRP-1 and TRP-2) 
and mutated or aberrantly expressed antigens (MUM-1, CDK4, beta-catenin, 
gp100-in4, p15 and N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase V). In this review, we have 
summarized the available data concerning the characterization of 
melanoma-associated antigens with focus on their immunogenic and protective 
properties. The development of a strong immune response against differentiation 
antigens is limited by the existence of tolerance against these 'self' antigens, 
permitting the involvement of only T cells with low affinity T cell receptors. 
Among the melanoma differentiation antigens, only gp100 has been shown to be a 
tumor regression antigen. The testis-specific antigens such as MAGE and PRAME 
should potentially be highly immunogenic antigens. They contain several 
potential HLA class I binding epitopes and are present only in the testes which 
are not accessible to the cells of the immune system due to the lack of direct 
contact with the immune cells and the lack of HLA class I expression on the 
surface of germ cells. But only 2 patients have been found who responded to 
these antigens in vivo, indicating their genuinely low immunogenicity. A 
comparison of the predicted secondary structures of these two groups of antigens 
(testis-specific and differentiation antigens) revealed enrichment of long 
alpha-helical stretches in the testis-specific antigens. We hypothesize that 
such highly organized structures could diminish the efficiency of the protein 
unfolding--a necessary step in the proteolytic cleavage by proteasomes--and, 
therefore, could be responsible for the low immunogenicity of these proteins. In 
this case, modifications decreasing the stability of these proteins might be a 
means to improve the immune response against these potentially therapeutically 
useful antigens.

DOI: 10.1159/000019050
PMID: 9619397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. APMIS. 1998 Jul;106(7):665-79. doi: 10.1111/j.1699-0463.1998.tb00210.x.

Melanoma-associated antigens recognized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes.

Kirkin AF(1), Dzhandzhugazyan K, Zeuthen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Cell Biology, Institute of Cancer Biology, Danish Cancer 
Society, Copenhagen.

During the last 7 years significant progress has been made in the identification 
of melanoma-associated antigens recognized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL). 
These antigens belong to three main groups: cancer/testis-specific antigens 
(MAGE, BAGE, GAGE, PRAME and NY-ESO-1), melanocyte differentiation antigens 
(tyrosinase, Melan-A/MART-1, gp100, TRP-1 and TRP-2), and mutated or aberrantly 
expressed antigens (MUM-1, CDK4, beta-catenin, gp100-in4, p15 and 
N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase V). In this review we have summarized the 
available data concerning the characterization of melanoma-associated antigens, 
focusing on their immunogenic and protective properties. The development of a 
strong immune response to differentiation antigens is limited by the existence 
of tolerance to these "self"-antigens, permitting the involvement of only T 
cells with low affinity T-cell receptors. Among the melanoma differentiation 
antigens, only gp100 has been shown to be a tumor regression antigen. The 
cancer/testis-specific antigens such as MAGE and PRAME should potentially be 
highly immunogenic antigens. They contain several potential HLA class I binding 
epitopes and are present only in the testes, which are not accessible to the 
cells of the immune system owing to the lack of direct contact with the immune 
cells and the lack of HLA class I expression on the surface of germ cells. But 
only two patients have been found who responded to these antigens in vivo, 
indicating their genuinely low immunogenicity. A comparison of the predicted 
secondary structures of these two groups of antigens (cancer/testis-specific and 
differentiation antigens) revealed enrichment of long alpha-helical stretches in 
the cancer/testis-specific antigens. We hypothesize that such highly organized 
stable structures could, first, reduce denaturation of the protein and, thus, 
ubiquitinylation as a degradation signal, and, second, diminish the efficiency 
of the protein unfolding - a necessary step in the proteolytic cleavage by 
proteasomes. High structural stability could therefore be responsible for the 
low immunogenicity of these proteins. In this case, modifications decreasing the 
stability of these proteins might be a means of improving the immune response to 
these potentially therapeutically useful antigens.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1699-0463.1998.tb00210.x
PMID: 9740504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Cancer Res. 1998 Sep 15;58(18):4090-5.

Heterogeneous expression of the tumor-associated antigens RAGE-1, PRAME, and 
glycoprotein 75 in human renal cell carcinoma: candidates for T-cell-based 
immunotherapies?

Neumann E(1), Engelsberg A, Decker J, Störkel S, Jaeger E, Huber C, Seliger B.

Author information:
(1)The Johannes Gutenberg-Universität, III. Medizinische Klinik, Mainz, Germany.

It has recently been shown that tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) can evoke 
tumor-specific T-cell-defined immune responses in cancer patients, thereby 
offering the possibility of treating patients with such antigens. To develop 
T-cell-based immunotherapeutic approaches for renal cell carcinoma (RCC), we 
studied the mRNA expression profile of the TAAs RAGE-1, tyrosinase, MAGE-1, 
MAGE-2, NY-ESO-1, Melan-A/MART-1, glycoprotein (gp) 75, gp100, beta-catenin, 
PRAME, and MUM-1 in 14 human RCC cell lines and in tissue specimens of 37 
primary RCCs, 2 related metastases, and 33 specimens of normal renal epithelium. 
Reverse transcription-PCR was performed with TAA-reactive primers, and the 
specificity of the PCR products was confirmed by Southern blot and/or direct 
sequencing. PRAME (10 of 14 cell lines), RAGE-1 (7 of 14 cell lines), and gp75 
(4 of 14 cell lines) antigens were expressed in a high percentage of RCC cell 
lines, although the level of TAA expression varied among the different RCC cell 
lines. However, low levels of TAA expression in RCC cells are sufficient for 
recognition by TAA-specific CTLs. Transcription of tyrosinase, Melan-A/MART-1, 
MAGE-1, MAGE-2, NY-ESO-1, gp100, beta-catenin, and MUM-1 was not detected in any 
RCC cell line. Approximately 50% of surgically removed neoplasias expressed at 
least one TAA. RAGE-1 mRNA expression was found in 8 of 39 (21%) RCC samples, 
PRAME mRNA expression was found in 15 of 39 (40%) RCC samples, and gp75 mRNA 
expression was found in 4 of 39 (11%) RCC samples, but the expression levels of 
these TAAs were heterogeneous in the different RCC lesions. One RCC specimen 
expressed MAGE-2, whereas transcription was not detected in any RCC specimen for 
MAGE-1, NY-ESO-1, tyrosinase, Melan-A/MART-1, gp100, beta-catenin, and MUM-1. 
The normal kidney epithelium samples were negative for any TAA tested. Thus, 
RAGE-1, PRAME, and gp75 expression is found with a different frequency in 
surgically removed lesions and in RCC cell lines, suggesting that a subgroup of 
RCC patients could be selected for immunotherapeutic strategies that may benefit 
from immunization against the RAGE-1, gp75, and/or PRAME antigens. However, 
additional targets for T-cell-based immunotherapy of RCC have yet to be 
identified.

PMID: 9751617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Br J Haematol. 1998 Sep;102(5):1376-9. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2141.1998.00982.x.

PRAME, a gene encoding an antigen recognized on a human melanoma by cytolytic T 
cells, is expressed in acute leukaemia cells.

van Baren N(1), Chambost H, Ferrant A, Michaux L, Ikeda H, Millard I, Olive D, 
Boon T, Coulie PG.

Author information:
(1)Cellular Genetics Unit, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

Gene PRAME was found to encode an antigen recognized on a human melanoma cell 
line by an autologous cytolytic T-lymphocyte clone. This gene is expressed at a 
high level in a very large fraction of tumours, such as melanomas, 
non-small-cell lung carcinomas, sarcomas, head and neck tumours and renal 
carcinomas. It is therefore a candidate for tumour immunotherapy even though 
some low expression is found in certain normal tissues. We tested by RT-PCR the 
expression of PRAME on more than 250 bone marrow or blood samples from patients 
with a haematological malignancy. Approximately 25% of the acute leukaemia 
samples were positive. Remarkably, all acute myeloblastic leukaemias that 
carried the chromosomal translocation t(8;21), which fuses the genes AML1 and 
ETO, expressed PRAME at a high level.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2141.1998.00982.x
PMID: 9753074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Bratisl Lek Listy. 1998 Aug-Sep;99(8-9):426-34.

The immunogenic properties of human melanomas and melanoma-associated antigens 
recognized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes.

Zeuthen J(1), Dzhandzhugazyan K, Hansen MR, Kirkin AF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Cell Biology, Institute of Cancer Biology, Danish Cancer 
Society, Copenhagen, Denmark. jz@bio.cancer.dk

During the last years significant progress has been achieved in the 
identification of melanoma-associated antigens (MAA) recognized by cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes (CTL). These antigens belong to three main groups: tumor-associated 
testis-specific antigens (MAGE, BAGE, GAGE and PRAME), melanocyte 
differentiation antigens (tyrosinase, Melan-A/MART-1, gp100, TRP-1 and TRP-2) 
and mutated or aberrantly expressed antigens (MUM-1, CDK4, beta-catenin, 
gp100-in4, p15 and N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase V). For the identification of 
these antigens, CTL cultures from mainly only 4 different melanoma patients have 
been used. These patients developed a strong anti-melanoma response resulting in 
long-lasting disease-free periods, pointing to the importance of the 
identification of highly immunogenic melanomas. In each of these patients, the 
immune response was observed against a unique set of 4 to 6 individual antigenic 
epitopes, on one hand suggesting the low immunogenicity of the individual 
antigens, and on the other pointing to the importance of the identification of 
additional highly immunogenic melanomas for the discovery of new MAA. The 
analysis of the available data on the immunogenic and protective properties of 
individual MAA confirms their low immunogenicity. In our study, we focused on 
the identification of especially highly immunogenic melanomas among a panel of 
40 newly established melanoma cell lines. So far, only two such melanoma cell 
lines, FM3 and FM57 have been identified in this panel. The immunogenic 
properties of uncloned FM3 cells and several FM3 clones have been further 
investigated. It was found that the immunogenic properties of melanoma cells are 
mainly determined by the expression of progression-associated antigens as well 
as by ecto-ATPase, a molecule which is able to modulate cell adhesion. Cloning 
the cultures of PBL, stimulated with uncloned FM3 or with the highly immunogenic 
FM3 clone, FM3.29, has permitted us to identify the immune response against 
eight different MAA, five of these probably representing not previously 
described antigens. (Tab. 2, Fig. 2, Ref. 68.)

PMID: 9810766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Genomics. 1999 Jul 15;59(2):161-7. doi: 10.1006/geno.1999.5870.

Identification of a new, unorthodox member of the MAGE gene family.

Põld M(1), Zhou J, Chen GL, Hall JM, Vescio RA, Berenson JR.

Author information:
(1)Brentwood Biomedical Research Institute, Division of Hematology and Oncology, 
Veterans Affairs West Los Angeles Medical Center, 11301 Wilshire Boulevard, 
111-H, Los Angeles, California 90073, USA. Maalpold@msn.com

Comment in
    Genomics. 2000 Nov 15;70(1):150-2.

Several tumor-associated antigen families, such as MAGE, GAGE/PAGE, PRAME, BAGE, 
and LAGE/NY-ESO-1, exist. These antigens are of particular interest in tumor 
immunology, because their expression, with exception of testis and fetal 
tissues, seems to be restricted to tumor cells only. We have identified a novel 
member of the MAGE gene family, MAGED1. Northern hybridization and RT-PCR 
demonstrated that the expression level of MAGED1 in different normal adult 
tissues is comparable to that in testis and fetal liver. Thus, MAGED1 does not 
possess an expression pattern characteristic of previously identified MAGE 
family genes, suggesting that the biology of the MAGE-family genes is more 
complex than previously thought. Chromosome mapping linked MAGED1 to marker 
AFM119xd6 (DXS1039) on chromosome Xp11.23.

Copyright 1999 Academic Press.

DOI: 10.1006/geno.1999.5870
PMID: 10409427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Rinsho Ketsueki. 1999 Jun;40(6):484-6.

[PRAME protein expressed in leukemia cells as a target molecule for 
immunotherapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikeda H, Matsushita M, Kawakami H.

PMID: 10422284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. FEBS Lett. 2000 Jan 28;466(2-3):367-71. doi: 10.1016/s0014-5793(00)01112-1.

Identification of a melanoma antigen, PRAME, as a BCR/ABL-inducible gene.

Watari K(1), Tojo A, Nagamura-Inoue T, Nagamura F, Takeshita A, Fukushima T, 
Motoji T, Tani K, Asano S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Institute of Medical Science, University 
of Tokyo, Japan. kiyoshi@ims.u-tokyo.ac.jp

In order to elucidate molecular events in BCR/ABL-induced transformation, we 
adopted a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based technique of differential 
display and compared mRNA expression in human factor-dependent cells, TF-1, with 
that in factor-independent cells, ID-1, which were established from TF-1 cells 
by transfection of BCR/ABL. Cloning and sequencing of a gene which was 
upregulated in ID-1 cells revealed that the gene was identical to a melanoma 
antigen, PRAME. Our present study demonstrated that PRAME was markedly expressed 
in primary leukemic cells with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in blastic crisis 
and Philadelphia (Ph)+-acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), in which BCR/ABL 
played an important role as a pathogenic gene. Moreover, comparison of PRAME 
expression among CD34+ cells with CML in blastic, accelerated, and chronic 
phases revealed a higher expression in CML in advanced phases. Thus PRAME was 
considered to be a good candidate for a marker of Ph+-leukemic blast cells as 
well as a new target antigen of leukemic blast cells that cytotoxic T cells can 
recognize.

DOI: 10.1016/s0014-5793(00)01112-1
PMID: 10682862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Int J Cancer. 2000 Mar 1;85(5):726-32. doi: 
10.1002/(sici)1097-0215(20000301)85:5<726::aid-ijc21>3.0.co;2-f.

CT10: a new cancer-testis (CT) antigen homologous to CT7 and the MAGE family, 
identified by representational-difference analysis.

Güre AO(1), Stockert E, Arden KC, Boyer AD, Viars CS, Scanlan MJ, Old LJ, Chen 
YT.

Author information:
(1)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, New York Branch at Memorial 
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.

Assays relying on humoral or T-cell-based recognition of tumor antigens to 
identify potential targets for immunotherapy have led to the discovery of a 
significant number of immunogenic gene products, including cancer-testis (CT) 
antigens predominantly expressed in cancer cells and male germ cells. The search 
for cancer-specific antigens has been extended via the technique of 
representational-difference analysis and SK-MEL-37, a melanoma cell line 
expressing a broad range of CT antigens. Using this approach, we have isolated 
CT antigen genes, genes over-expressed in cancer, e. g., PRAME and KOC, and 
genes encoding neuro-ectodermal markers. The identified CT antigen genes include 
the previously defined MAGE-A6, MAGE-A4a, MAGE-A10, CT7/MAGE-C1, as well as a 
novel gene designated CT10, which shows strong homology to CT7/MAGE-C1 both at 
cDNA and at genomic levels. Chromosome mapping localized CT10 to Xq27, in close 
proximity to CT7/MAGE-C1 and MAGE-A genes. CT10 mRNA is expressed in testis and 
in 20 to 30% of various human cancers. A serological survey identified 2 
melanoma patients with anti-CT10 antibody, demonstrating the immunogenicity of 
CT10 in humans.

Copyright 2000 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/(sici)1097-0215(20000301)85:5<726::aid-ijc21>3.0.co;2-f
PMID: 10699956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Eur J Immunol. 2000 Mar;30(3):803-9. doi: 
10.1002/1521-4141(200003)30:3<803::AID-IMMU803>3.0.CO;2-P.

The cancer germ-line genes MAGE-1, MAGE-3 and PRAME are commonly expressed by 
human myeloma cells.

Pellat-Deceunynck C(1), Mellerin MP, Labarrière N, Jego G, Moreau-Aubry A, 
Harousseau JL, Jotereau F, Bataille R.

Author information:
(1)Inserm U463, Institut de Biologie, Nantes, France. cpellat@nantes.inserm.fr

In this study, we have investigated the mRNA expression of the cancer germ-line 
genes MAGE, BAGE, GAGE, RAGE and the tumor-overexpressed gene PRAME by human 
myeloma cell lines and malignant plasma cells from patients with multiple 
myeloma (MM). By reverse transcription-PCR, we show that all myeloma cell lines 
(n = 16) express at least one of these genes, except RAGE-1 that was never 
expressed. We show that malignant plasma cells from the majority of MM patients 
(n = 21) expressed MAGE-1, MAGE-3 and PRAME. On the contrary, polyclonal 
reactive plasma cells did not express any of these genes. By flow cytometry, we 
show that mage-1 protein is expressed within myeloma cells and cell lines and 
that anti-mage-1.HLA-A1 cytotoxic T lymphocytes efficiently killed 
MAGE-1+HLA-A1+ MDN myeloma cells. Taken together, our data show that mage-1 and 
mage-3 could constitute specific targets for tumor immunotherapy of MM patients.

DOI: 10.1002/1521-4141(200003)30:3<803::AID-IMMU803>3.0.CO;2-P
PMID: 10741395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Exp Med. 2001 Jan 1;193(1):73-88. doi: 10.1084/jem.193.1.73.

Efficient identification of novel HLA-A(*)0201-presented cytotoxic T lymphocyte 
epitopes in the widely expressed tumor antigen PRAME by proteasome-mediated 
digestion analysis.

Kessler JH(1), Beekman NJ, Bres-Vloemans SA, Verdijk P, van Veelen PA, 
Kloosterman-Joosten AM, Vissers DC, ten Bosch GJ, Kester MG, Sijts A, Wouter 
Drijfhout J, Ossendorp F, Offringa R, Melief CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion, Leiden University 
Medical Center, 2300 RC Leiden, The Netherlands. kesslerj@worldonline.nl

We report the efficient identification of four human histocompatibility 
leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A(*)0201-presented cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes 
in the tumor-associated antigen PRAME using an improved "reverse immunology" 
strategy. Next to motif-based HLA-A(*)0201 binding prediction and actual binding 
and stability assays, analysis of in vitro proteasome-mediated digestions of 
polypeptides encompassing candidate epitopes was incorporated in the epitope 
prediction procedure. Proteasome cleavage pattern analysis, in particular 
determination of correct COOH-terminal cleavage of the putative epitope, allows 
a far more accurate and selective prediction of CTL epitopes. Only 4 of 19 high 
affinity HLA-A(*)0201 binding peptides (21%) were found to be efficiently 
generated by the proteasome in vitro. This approach avoids laborious CTL 
response inductions against high affinity binding peptides that are not 
processed and limits the number of peptides to be assayed for binding. CTL 
clones induced against the four identified epitopes (VLDGLDVLL, PRA(100-108); 
SLYSFPEPEA, PRA(142-151); ALYVDSLFFL, PRA(300-309); and SLLQHLIGL, PRA(425-433)) 
lysed melanoma, renal cell carcinoma, lung carcinoma, and mammary carcinoma cell 
lines expressing PRAME and HLA-A(*)0201. This indicates that these epitopes are 
expressed on cancer cells of diverse histologic origin, making them attractive 
targets for immunotherapy of cancer.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.193.1.73
PMCID: PMC2195886
PMID: 11136822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Exp Hematol. 2000 Dec;28(12):1413-22. doi: 10.1016/s0301-472x(00)00550-6.

Simultaneous expression of different immunogenic antigens in acute myeloid 
leukemia.

Greiner J(1), Ringhoffer M, Simikopinko O, Szmaragowska A, Huebsch S, Maurer U, 
Bergmann L, Schmitt M.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Medicine, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.

Identification of immunogenic leukemia-associated antigens as target structures 
is mandatory for specific immunotherapy of leukemia. Here, we define acute 
myeloid leukemia (AML) antigens eliciting a humoral immune response in the 
autologous host. We applied the method of serologic screening of cDNA expression 
libraries with autologous serum (SEREX). To date, this technique has been used 
to characterize antigen structures in solid tumors. The mRNA expression pattern 
of these newly in AML isolated antigens and previously described leukemia 
antigens (PRAME, MAGE-1, and Wt-1) was evaluated by reverse transcriptase 
polymerase chain reaction. For Wt-1, Western blotting also was performed. 
Screening of a cDNA expression library prepared from a patient with AML FAB M2 
using autologous and allogeneic sera, followed by sequencing of positive clones, 
yielded three autoantigens (Prp1p/Zer1p, L19H1, and one without homology to 
previously described genes) and two antigens reactive with allogeneic sera (MAZ, 
PINCH). PRAME mRNA was expressed in 47% of 34 AML patients, but not in 13 
CD34(+) cell samples or in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 13 healthy 
volunteers. mRNA expression of MAZ was detected in 44% of AML patients, but only 
in 8% of healthy donors. Humoral responses to MAZ were detected in 35%. More 
than 80% of the screened AML patients showed simultaneous expression of two or 
more of these antigens.Differential expression in AML patients vs healthy 
volunteers suggests that the immunogenic antigens PRAME and MAZ are potential 
candidates for immunotherapy in AML.

DOI: 10.1016/s0301-472x(00)00550-6
PMID: 11146163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Br J Haematol. 2001 Mar;112(4):916-26. doi: 10.1046/j.1365-2141.2001.02670.x.

Quantitative monitoring of the PRAME gene for the detection of minimal residual 
disease in leukaemia.

Matsushita M(1), Ikeda H, Kizaki M, Okamoto S, Ogasawara M, Ikeda Y, Kawakami Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cellular Signalling, Institute for Advanced Medical Research, 
Keio University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 
160-8582, Japan.

PRAME (Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) has been previously 
identified as a melanoma antigen recognized by cytotoxic T cells (CTLs) and 
found to be expressed in a variety of cancer cells including leukaemic cells. We 
have screened 98 Japanese patients with leukaemia and lymphoma for expression of 
the PRAME gene using semiquantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain 
reaction (RT-PCR). Forty-one patients (42%) showed high levels of PRAME 
expression. Eight of these patients were then monitored using real-time PCR for 
a period of 10-37 months. Significant reductions in the PRAME expression were 
observed in all patients after chemotherapy. An increased expression was 
detected in the two patients who relapsed, one of which was before cytological 
diagnosis. These changes were correlated with those of other known genetic 
markers, such as the bcr-abl gene. Therefore, quantitative monitoring of the 
PRAME gene using real-time PCR method may be useful for detecting minimal 
residual disease and to predict subsequent relapse, especially in patients 
without known genetic markers. In addition, a PRAME-positive leukaemia cell line 
and fresh leukaemic cells were found to be susceptible to lysis by 
PRAME-specific CTLs established from a patient with melanoma, suggesting that 
the PRAME peptide can also be a target leukaemia antigen for T cells.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1365-2141.2001.02670.x
PMID: 11298586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 2002 Mar;133(2):118-23. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-4608(01)00570-2.

Clinical implications of PRAME gene expression in childhood acute myeloid 
leukemia.

Steinbach D(1), Hermann J, Viehmann S, Zintl F, Gruhn B.

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital, Jena, Germany. danielsteinbach@hotmail.com

The expression of the PRAME gene (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) 
was measured by quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in 
50 children with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML), three samples of 
CD34(+) stem cells, six bone marrow samples, and 10 peripheral blood samples of 
healthy donors, as well as three AML cell-lines (KG-1, U937, and HL-60). Eight 
patients were also analyzed in relapse. Contrary to previous reports, we could 
show that the PRAME gene is expressed by CD34(+) stem cells. This might 
constitute a problem in using PRAME for tumor immunotherapy. Overexpression of 
PRAME was found in 62% (n=31) of our patients. The rates of overall and 
disease-free survival in this group were higher than in patients with no or low 
expression (P<0.05). PRAME expression was negatively correlated to the white 
blood cell count at diagnosis (P<0.05) and significantly higher in patients with 
t(8;21). The levels of expression at diagnosis corresponded with those at 
relapse (P<0.001) and increased levels could be found prior to the relapse in 
one patient who was regularly monitored. Our results suggest that the expression 
of PRAME is an indicator of favorable prognosis and could be a useful tool for 
monitoring minimal residual disease in childhood AML.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-4608(01)00570-2
PMID: 11943337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Am J Pathol. 2002 Jun;160(6):2181-90. doi: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)61166-2.

Gene expression in Wilms' tumor mimics the earliest committed stage in the 
metanephric mesenchymal-epithelial transition.

Li CM(1), Guo M, Borczuk A, Powell CA, Wei M, Thaker HM, Friedman R, Klein U, 
Tycko B.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Cancer Genetics, Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.

Wilms' tumor (WT) has been considered a prototype for arrested cellular 
differentiation in cancer, but previous studies have relied on selected markers. 
We have now performed an unbiased survey of gene expression in WTs using 
oligonucleotide microarrays. Statistical criteria identified 357 genes as 
differentially expressed between WTs and fetal kidneys. This set contained 124 
matches to genes on a microarray used by Stuart and colleagues (Stuart RO, Bush 
KT, Nigam SK: Changes in global gene expression patterns during development and 
maturation of the rat kidney. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2001, 98:5649-5654) to 
establish genes with stage-specific expression in the developing rat kidney. 
Mapping between the two data sets showed that WTs systematically overexpressed 
genes corresponding to the earliest stage of metanephric development, and 
underexpressed genes corresponding to later stages. Automated clustering 
identified a smaller group of 27 genes that were highly expressed in WTs 
compared to fetal kidney and heterologous tumor and normal tissues. This 
signature set was enriched in genes encoding transcription factors. Four of 
these, PAX2, EYA1, HBF2, and HOXA11, are essential for cell survival and 
proliferation in early metanephric development, whereas others, including SIX1, 
MOX1, and SALL2, are predicted to act at this stage. SIX1 and SALL2 proteins 
were expressed in the condensing mesenchyme in normal human fetal kidneys, but 
were absent (SIX1) or reduced (SALL2) in cells at other developmental stages. 
These data imply that the blastema in WTs has progressed to the committed stage 
in the mesenchymal-epithelial transition, where it is partially arrested in 
differentiation. The WT-signature set also contained the Wnt receptor FZD7, the 
tumor antigen PRAME, the imprinted gene NNAT and the metastasis-associated 
transcription factor E1AF.

DOI: 10.1016/S0002-9440(10)61166-2
PMCID: PMC1850829
PMID: 12057921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 2002 Oct 1;138(1):89-91. doi: 
10.1016/s0165-4608(02)00582-4.

PRAME gene expression in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Steinbach D(1), Viehmann S, Zintl F, Gruhn B.

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital, Jena, Germany.

The gene PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) was found to be 
expressed at high levels in a large fraction of different tumors and adult 
leukemias. Since PRAME is only expressed at low levels in a few normal tissues 
and encodes an antigen recognized by autologous cytolytic T lymphocytes, it 
might be a good candidate for tumor immunotherapy. In this study, quantitative 
reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction was used to measure PRAME gene 
expression in 50 children with newly diagnosed acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL). Nine patients were also analyzed in relapse. Overexpression of PRAME was 
found in 42% (N = 21) of the patients. In accordance with our findings in acute 
myeloblastic leukemia (AML) patients, the rate of disease-free survival was 
higher and white blood cell counts at diagnosis were lower in patients with an 
overexpression of PRAME. However, in our group of ALL patients these findings 
were not statistically significant. The levels of expression at diagnosis 
corresponded well with those at relapse (P = 0.017). Although overexpression of 
PRAME was less frequent than in children with AML (62%) our results suggest that 
PRAME could be a useful target for immunotherapy in some children with ALL.

DOI: 10.1016/s0165-4608(02)00582-4
PMID: 12419593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Hum Immunol. 2003 Feb;64(2):245-55. doi: 10.1016/s0198-8859(02)00787-5.

Competition-based cellular peptide binding assays for 13 prevalent HLA class I 
alleles using fluorescein-labeled synthetic peptides.

Kessler JH(1), Mommaas B, Mutis T, Huijbers I, Vissers D, Benckhuijsen WE, 
Schreuder GM, Offringa R, Goulmy E, Melief CJ, van der Burg SH, Drijfhout JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion, Leiden University 
Medical Center, The Netherlands.

We report the development, validation, and application of competition-based 
peptide binding assays for 13 prevalent human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I 
alleles. The assays are based on peptide binding to HLA molecules on living 
cells carrying the particular allele. Competition for binding between the test 
peptide of interest and a fluorescein-labeled HLA class I binding peptide is 
used as read out. The use of cell membrane-bound HLA class I molecules 
circumvents the need for laborious biochemical purification of these molecules 
in soluble form. Previously, we have applied this principle for HLA-A2 and 
HLA-A3. We now describe the assays for HLA-A1, HLA-A11, HLA-A24, HLA-A68, 
HLA-B7, HLA-B8, HLA-B14, HLA-B35, HLA-B60, HLA-B61, and HLA-B62. Together with 
HLA-A2 and HLA-A3, these alleles cover more than 95% of the Caucasian 
population. Several allele-specific parameters were determined for each assay. 
Using these assays, we identified novel HLA class I high-affinity binding 
peptides from HIVpol, p53, PRAME, and minor histocompatibility antigen HA-1. 
Thus these convenient and accurate peptide-binding assays will be useful for the 
identification of putative cytotoxic T lymphocyte epitopes presented on a 
diverse array of HLA class I molecules.

DOI: 10.1016/s0198-8859(02)00787-5
PMID: 12559627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Leuk Res. 2003 May;27(5):393-6. doi: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00217-5.

The expression of PRAME in chronic lymphoproliferative disorders.

Proto-Siqueira R(1), Falcão RP, de Souza CA, Ismael SJ, Zago MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Center of Cell-based Therapy, Faculty of 
Medicine of Ribeirão Preto, Hemocentro de Ribeirao Preto, Rua Tenente Catao 
Roxo, 2501, 14051-140, Ribeirao Preto, SP, Brazil.

The PRAME gene encodes an antigen recognized by autologous T lymphocytes and is 
expressed in trophoblasts, testis and frequently in human solid cancers and 
acute leukemias, making it a candidate for immunotherapy and for detecting MRD. 
We demonstrate expression of PRAME by RT-PCR in the peripheral blood or bone 
marrow of 26% of 58 patients with CLD (38 cases of CLL, 4 cases of PLL and 16 
cases of NHL). Seven out 16 cases of MCL, 2 out 4 of PLL and 6 cases of CLL 
demonstrated some degree of gene expression. Thus, CLD are among the 
hematopoietic malignancies for which PRAME may be the target of immunological 
therapy or used to evaluate MRD. The stronger and more frequent expression of 
PRAME in MCL is apparently an additional distinguishing feature on this group of 
lymphoproliferative disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/s0145-2126(02)00217-5
PMID: 12620290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Leuk Lymphoma. 2003 Mar;44(3):439-44. doi: 10.1080/1042819021000035725.

Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) in the development of 
diagnostic and therapeutic methods for hematological malignancies.

Matsushita M(1), Yamazaki R, Ikeda H, Kawakami Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cellular Signaling, Institute forAdvanced Medical Research, Keio 
University School of Medicine, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Mail code 160-8582 
Tokyo, Japan.

PRAME (Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma), highly expressed in 
various solid tumor cells and normal testis, was first isolated as a human 
melanoma antigen recognized by cytotoxic T cells (CTL). This gene was also 
expressed in some of the hematological malignancies, including acute myelogenous 
leukemia (AML) and multiple myeloma. We and others have extensively evaluated 
the PRAME expression in various hematological malignancies and demonstrated high 
expression of the PRAME gene in subsets of AML, chronic myelogenous leukemia, 
acute lymphocytic leukemia, lymphoma and multiple myeloma. In addition, we have 
demonstrated that PRAME was a useful marker for detection of minimal residual 
disease (MRD) in patients with leukemia, particularly those leukemias in which 
tumor specific markers are currently unavailable. Since PRAME was first 
identified as a tumor antigen recognized by T cells, the possibility that PRAME 
is a leukemia antigen recognized by T cells was evaluated, and it was found that 
PRAME-positive leukemia cell lines and fresh leukemia cells were susceptible to 
lysis by the PRAME-specific CTL. Five CTL epitopes associated with either 
HLA-A*0201 or HLA-A*2402 have recently been identified. It is, therefore, an 
attractive strategy to apply PRAME specific immunotherapy on patients with PRAME 
positive leukemia in MRD condition.

DOI: 10.1080/1042819021000035725
PMID: 12688312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Oncology. 2003;64(4):443-9. doi: 10.1159/000070305.

Expression of cancer/testis tumor associated antigens in cervical squamous cell 
carcinoma.

Sarcevic B(1), Spagnoli GC, Terracciano L, Schultz-Thater E, Heberer M, Gamulin 
M, Krajina Z, Oresic T, Separovic R, Juretic A.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital for Tumors, Zagreb, Croatia.

We investigated the expression of tumor-associated antigens (TAA) of the 
cancer/testis (C/T) gene family in cervical squamous cell carcinomas. First, we 
focused on the HeLa cervical cancer derived cell line, and we found that it 
expresses MAGE-A1, MAGE-A2, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE-A6, MAGE-A12, GAGE-3/6, 
LAGE-1, and PRAME genes, encoding defined C/T TAA. In contrast, no expression of 
MAGE-A10, BAGE, GAGE-1/2, or NY-ESO-1 genes was observed. Corresponding gene 
products could also be detected by immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry, 
taking advantage of monoclonal antibodies recognizing discrete TAA. Capitalizing 
on these data, a monoclonal antibody predominantly recognizing MAGE-A4 TAA in 
paraffin-embedded sections (57B) was used to investigate the C/T gene expression 
in clinical tumor samples. A group of 60 patients was studied, and 57B 
positivity was detectable to different extents in 33% of the cases (20/60). In 
13 of them (21%), staining of over 50% of the tumor cells was evident, whereas 
healthy cells always scored negative. Remarkably, MAGE-A4 expression was 
significantly (p < 0.05) more frequently detectable in poorly differentiated 
tumors (8/13) than in well-differentiated or moderately differentiated cancers 
(3/15 and 9/32, respectively) and in stage FIGO II as compared with stage FIGO 
Ib tumors (12/23 and 5/24, respectively, p = 0.04). Interestingly, staining was 
mostly nuclear in well-differentiated tumors, but involved both nuclei and 
cytoplasm in less differentiated cancers. Positivities of comparable frequency 
were also detectable in a smaller series of specimens upon staining with 
MAGE-A1- or NY-ESO-1/LAGE-1-specific reagents. Considering the high tumor 
specificity of C/T TAA, our data provide the rationale for the design of 
immunotherapy procedures targeting these antigens in cervical cancers.

Copyright 2003 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000070305
PMID: 12759544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Cancer Immun. 2003 Jul 16;3:8.

Reconstitution of CD40 and CD80 in dendritic cells generated from blasts of 
patients with acute myeloid leukemia.

Li L(1), Schmitt A, Reinhardt P, Greiner J, Ringhoffer M, Vaida B, Bommer M, 
Vollmer M, Wiesneth M, Döhner H, Schmitt M.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a clonal disease of hematopoiesis with poor 
clinical outcome despite recent improvements in chemotherapy and stem cell 
transplantation regimens. Immunotherapy with dendritic cells (DCs) eliciting 
specific T cell responses to leukemia-associated antigens (LAAs) might be a 
therapeutic option. DCs must express HLA class I/II molecules and the 
costimulatory molecules CD40, CD80 and CD86 to effectively activate T cells for 
the subsequent lysis of leukemic blasts. The expression of these antigens on DCs 
generated from 15 AML patients (AML-DCs) and on DCs generated from 15 healthy 
volunteers (HV-DCs) was analyzed by FACS. All DCs displayed the typical 
morphology and tested negative for B, T and NK cell markers. The sustained mRNA 
expression of LAAs such as PRAME, RHAMM or WT-1 proved that the AML-DCs 
originated from AML blasts. Compared with AML blasts, the expression of CD40, 
CD80, CD86 and HLA-DR was upregulated during DC culture to a median of 80-98% on 
AML-DCs. HLA-ABC was preserved on AML-DCs (median 95%). Expression of CD40, CD80 
and CD83 remained lower on AML-DCs than on HV-DCs. AML-DCs express at least one 
LAA and strongly express HLA and costimulatory molecules, the prerequisites for 
eliciting T cell responses. AML-DCs may play a role in vaccine-based 
immunotherapies for AML patients.

PMID: 12862419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Acta Ophthalmol (Copenh). 1963;41:497-507. doi: 
10.1111/j.1755-3768.1963.tb03562.x.

CHRONIC PROGRESSIVE EXTERNAL OPHTHALMOPLEGIA AND MUSCULARDYSTROPHY.

LIND I, PRAME G.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-3768.1963.tb03562.x
PMID: 14059919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. J Voice. 2003 Sep;17(3):343-52. doi: 10.1067/s0892-1997(03)00006-7.

Measurements of vibrato parameters in long sustained crescendo notes as sung by 
ten sopranos.

Bretos J(1), Sundberg J.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Física, Universidad Pública de Navarra, Campus de Arrosadía, 
Pamplona, Spain. jose.bretos@unavarra.es

Two high-pitched and long sustained notes, F5 and A5, were selected from an aria 
found in ten commercial recordings of G Verdi's opera Aida by ten different 
sopranos. Both notes were sung without any instrumental accompaniment and with a 
crescendo. These audio examples were analyzed with regard to fundamental 
frequency, vibrato rate, vibrato extent, intonation and sound level, and the 
relationship among these parameters. The results reveal that vibrato rate 
differed significantly between the tones in most of the singers and confirm 
Prame's observations that vibrato rate tends to increase exponentially toward 
the end of tones. Moreover, both vibrato extent and mean F0 often varied 
systematically with sound level. The regularity of the vibrato tended to be 
greater at F5 than at A5.

DOI: 10.1067/s0892-1997(03)00006-7
PMID: 14513957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Oncogene. 2003 Oct 23;22(48):7687-94. doi: 10.1038/sj.onc.1207043.

Comparison of medulloblastoma and normal neural transcriptomes identifies a 
restricted set of activated genes.

Boon K(1), Edwards JB, Siu IM, Olschner D, Eberhart CG, Marra MA, Strausberg RL, 
Riggins GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Box 3156, Durham NC 
27710, USA.

Over 1.4 million transcript tags expressed in 20 different human 
medulloblastomas were counted using serial analysis of gene expression. Digital 
gene expression profiles in the medulloblastoma were compared to multiple 
regions of the normal human brain, revealing 30 transcripts with high expression 
in multiple tumors and little or no expression in the normal cerebellum and 
other adult and pediatric brain regions. Using independent medulloblastoma 
samples and normal tissue, real-time PCR verified eight of nine selected genes 
as candidate tumor-associated antigens. Differential protein expression for 
CD24, prolactin and Topo2A was further confirmed by immunohistochemical analysis 
using medulloblastoma and normal brain sections and a tissue microarray. The 
genes highly expressed in the medulloblastoma include PRAME, a cancer-testis 
antigen and potential targets for immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.onc.1207043
PMID: 14576832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Int J Cancer. 2004 Feb 20;108(5):704-11. doi: 10.1002/ijc.11623.

mRNA expression of leukemia-associated antigens in patients with acute myeloid 
leukemia for the development of specific immunotherapies.

Greiner J(1), Ringhoffer M, Taniguchi M, Li L, Schmitt A, Shiku H, Döhner H, 
Schmitt M.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Medicine, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.

Specific immunotherapies for patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) using 
leukemia-associated antigens (LAA) as target structures might be a therapeutic 
option to enhance the graft-vs.-leukemia effect observed after allogeneic stem 
cell transplantation or to prolong a complete remission (CR) achieved by 
chemotherapy. Significant mRNA expression of LAA is a prerequisite for such 
immunotherapies. Here, previously characterized antigens associated with solid 
tumors (TAA) and newly characterized LAA were investigated for their expression 
in up to 60 AML patients and in leukemia cell lines. To investigate their 
specificity for leukemic blasts, the mRNA expression was also characterized in 
PBMN and CD34 positive cells of healthy volunteers and in a panel of normal 
tissues. The following antigens showed high mRNA expression in AML patients: 
MPP11 was detected in 43/50 (86%), RHAMM in 35/50 (70%), WT1 in 40/60 (67%), 
PRAME in 32/50 (64%), G250 in 18/35 (51%), hTERT in 7/25 (28%) and BAGE in 8/30 
(27%) of AML patients. Real-time RT-PCR showed a tumor-specific expression of 
the antigens BAGE, G250 and hTERT, as well as highly tumor-restricted expression 
for RHAMM, PRAME and WT1. The antigen MPP11 was overexpressed. These antigens 
might be candidates for immunotherapies of leukemia patients and, because of 
their simultaneous expression, also for polyvalent vaccines.

Copyright 2003 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.11623
PMID: 14696097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Methods Mol Med. 2004;97:267-75. doi: 10.1385/1-59259-760-2:267.

Quantitative analysis of PRAME for detection of minimal residual disease in 
leukemia.

Matsushita M(1), Yamazaki R, Kawakami Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cellular Signaling, Institute for Advanced Medical Research, Keio 
University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.

DOI: 10.1385/1-59259-760-2:267
PMID: 15064499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Urol. 2004 Jun;171(6 Pt 1):2456-60. doi: 10.1097/01.ju.0000118383.86684.38.

Simultaneous expression of T-cell activating antigens in renal cell carcinoma: 
implications for specific immunotherapy.

Ringhoffer M(1), Müller CR, Schenk A, Kirsche H, Schmitt M, Greiner J, Gschwend 
JE.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Internal Medicine III, University Hospital and German National 
Bone Marrow Donor Registry, Ulm, Germany.

PURPOSE: The activation of antigen specific T cells by tumor associated antigens 
(TAA) might be a promising treatment strategy for patients with renal cell 
carcinoma (RCC). We analyzed TAA expression in patients with RCC as well as the 
prevalence of fitting HLA phenotypes and calculated the percent of patients 
eligible for peptide vaccination trials.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 41 RCC samples from primary tumors were 
analyzed for TAA expression by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. 
Genes of interest were MAGE-1, MAGE-3, G250 and PRAME since peptides derived 
from these genes have been shown to activate antigen specific cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes. Results were combined with data on the HLA gene and haplotype 
frequencies in the German population as an example of a white population.
RESULTS: Tumor specific expression of at least 1 T-cell activating antigen was 
observed in all patients. Of the patients 80% expressed 2 or more TAAs 
simultaneously. HLA molecules suitable for presentation of the respective 
antigens were calculated to be expressed in 51% to 85% of white German patients. 
These results mirror with only minor variations most of the white populations in 
Europe and North America.
CONCLUSIONS: We noted that T-cell activating tumor associated antigens are 
frequently expressed in patients with RCC. Based on HLA expression analysis in a 
white population at least 30% of patients with RCC are eligible for monovalent 
specific immunotherapy and 41% are eligible for polyvalent specific 
immunotherapy. These data are a rational basis for future prospective 
vaccination trials in patients with RCC.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ju.0000118383.86684.38
PMID: 15126875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Acta Haematol. 2004;112(1-2):40-54. doi: 10.1159/000077559.

Detection of minimal residual disease in acute myelogenous leukemia.

Raanani P(1), Ben-Bassat I.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology, Chaim Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer and Sackler 
School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel. praanani@012.net.il

Acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) is considered to be in complete remission when 
fewer than 5% of the cells in bone marrow are blasts. Nevertheless, 
approximately two thirds of patients relapse due to persisting leukemic blasts. 
The persistence of these cells, below the threshold of morphological detection, 
is termed minimal residual disease (MRD) and various methods are used for its 
detection. These methods include classical cytogenetics, fluorescence in situ 
hybridization, qualitative and quantitative RT-PCR and multiparametric flow 
cytometry. Currently, less than half of the AML patients have a specific marker 
detectable by RT-PCR techniques. The major specific molecular markers are 
involvement of the MLL gene with up to 50 different partners and partial tandem 
duplications, the core binding factor leukemias with AML1/ETO and CBFbeta/MYH11 
rearrangements, PML/RARalpha in acute promyelocytic leukemia, internal tandem 
duplications and mutations of FLT3 and some other rare translocations. In 
addition, several other genes show abnormal expression levels in AML, including 
the Wilms tumor gene, the PRAME gene and Ig/TCR rearrangements. Most of these 
genetic abnormalities can be detected by qualitative but more importantly by 
quantitative RT-PCR. The kinetics of disappearance of molecular markers in AML 
differs between the various types of leukemias, although at least a 2 log 
reduction of transcript after induction chemotherapy is necessary for long-term 
remission in all types. Conversely, the change of PCR from negativity to 
positivity is highly predictive of relapse. Whereas in acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia, multiparametric flow cytometry is an established method for MRD 
detection, this is less so in AML. The reason is the absence of 
well-characterized leukemia-specific antigens and the existence of phenotypic 
changes at relapse. On the other hand, this method is convenient due to its 
simplicity and universal applicability. In conclusion, several methods can be 
used for MRD detection in AML patients; each has its pros and cons. Several 
issues still remain to be settled including the choice of the best method and 
the timing for MRD monitoring and above all the practical clinical implications 
of MRD in the various types of AML.

Copyright 2004 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000077559
PMID: 15179004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Br J Haematol. 2004 Jun;125(6):729-42. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2004.04982.x.

Microarray transcript profiling distinguishes the transient from the acute type 
of megakaryoblastic leukaemia (M7) in Down's syndrome, revealing PRAME as a 
specific discriminating marker.

McElwaine S(1), Mulligan C, Groet J, Spinelli M, Rinaldi A, Denyer G, Mensah A, 
Cavani S, Baldo C, Dagna-Bricarelli F, Hann I, Basso G, Cotter FE, Nizetic D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Haematology, Institute of Cell and Molecular Science, Barts and 
The London, Queen Mary's School of Medicine, University of London, Medical 
College Building, Turner Street, London, UK.

Transient myeloproliferative disorder (TMD) is a unique, spontaneously 
regressing neoplasia specific to Down's syndrome (DS), affecting up to 10% of DS 
neonates. In 20-30% of cases, it reoccurs as progressive acute megakaryoblastic 
leukaemia (AMKL) at 2-4 years of age. The TMD and AMKL blasts are 
morphologically and immuno-phenotypically identical, and have the same acquired 
mutations in GATA1. We performed transcript profiling of nine TMD patients 
comparing them with seven AMKL patients using Affymetrix HG-U133A microarrays. 
Similar overall transcript profiles were observed between the two conditions, 
which were only separable by supervised clustering. Taqman analysis on 10 TMD 
and 10 AMKL RNA samples verified the expression of selected differing genes, 
with statistical significance (P < 0.05) by Student's t-test. The Taqman 
differences were also reproduced on TMD and AMKL blasts sorted by a 
fluorescence-activated cell sorter. Among the significant differences, CDKN2C, 
the effector of GATA1-mediated cell cycle arrest, was increased in AMKL but not 
TMD, despite the similar level of GATA1. In contrast, MYCN 
(neuroblastoma-derived oncogene) was expressed in TMD at a significantly greater 
level than in AMKL. MYCN has not previously been described in leukaemogenesis. 
Finally, the tumour antigen PRAME was identified as a specific marker for AMKL 
blasts, with no expression in TMD. This study provides markers discriminating 
TMD from AMKL-M7 in DS. These markers have the potential as predictive, 
diagnostic and therapeutic targets. In addition, the study provides further 
clues into the pathomechanisms discerning self-regressive from the progressive 
phenotype.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2004.04982.x
PMID: 15180862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Clin Cancer Res. 2004 Jul 1;10(13):4307-13. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-03-0813.

The tumor-associated antigen PRAME is universally expressed in high-stage 
neuroblastoma and associated with poor outcome.

Oberthuer A(1), Hero B, Spitz R, Berthold F, Fischer M.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital, Department of Pediatric Oncology and Hematology, 
University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany. andre.oberthuer@medizin.uni-koeln.de

PURPOSE: The tumor-associated antigen PRAME, a potential candidate for 
immunotherapeutic targeting, is frequently expressed in a variety of cancers. 
However, no information about its presence in neuroblastoma is available to 
date. We therefore evaluated and quantified PRAME expression in a considerable 
number of neuroblastoma tumors and assessed its impact on the outcome of 
patients.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Qualitative analysis of PRAME expression was assessed by 
reverse transcription (RT)-PCR screening of 94 patients with primary 
neuroblastoma. The same cohort was used for semiquantitative determination of 
transcript levels by Northern blotting, comparing the signal intensities of 
patients with those of testis total RNA. For more precise quantification of 
PRAME expression, real-time RT-PCR was performed in 88 patients of the above 
cohort and 7 additional patients, thus leaving a total of 101 patients that were 
analyzed with either method. Furthermore, association with tumor stage, age of 
patients at diagnosis, and MYCN amplification was determined as well as the 
prognostic impact of PRAME expression.
RESULTS: RT-PCR screening detected PRAME expression in 93% of primary 
neuroblastoma and 100% of patients with advanced disease. Furthermore, RT-PCR 
and Northern blot analysis showed a highly significant association of PRAME 
expression with both higher tumor stage (P < 0.01) and the age of patients at 
diagnosis (P < 0.01). Finally, precise quantification of PRAME expression by 
quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR displayed significant impact on 
the outcome of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME expression in neuroblastoma is extraordinarily common and was 
universally seen in patients with advanced-stage disease in our study. 
Furthermore, significant impact of PRAME expression on the outcome of patients 
was shown. Thus, PRAME may present a particularly attractive target for 
immunotherapeutic strategies in neuroblastoma.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-03-0813
PMID: 15240516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2004 Dec;34(11):923-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1704670.

Donor lymphocyte infusions for multiple myeloma: clinical results and novel 
perspectives.

Zeiser R(1), Bertz H, Spyridonidis A, Houet L, Finke J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Albert Ludwigs University Medical 
Center Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Donor lymphocyte infusions (DLIs) provide effective therapy for patients with 
various hematological malignancies who have relapsed after allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). In patients with multiple 
myeloma (MM), DLIs can induce response rates of 40-52%. DLIs were employed as 
treatment for MM relapse or as prophylaxis for relapse in MM patients undergoing 
allo-HSCT. The clinically most relevant treatment-related morbidity with DLIs is 
the occurrence of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Secondly, graft failure and 
the immune escape of extramedullary plasmocytoma have been reported. The fact 
that previous clinical reports have documented graft-versus-myeloma (GVM) 
activity without GVHD suggests that at least two distinct immunocompetent cell 
populations mediating GVHD and/or GVM may exist. Further characterization of the 
effector cells such as T cells and/or NK cells and their targets may help to 
clarify the immune response that mediates the GVM effect. This review considers 
the results of clinical approaches with DLI for MM, with emphasis on strategies 
to prevent GVHD while preserving the GVM effect. Furthermore, currently 
investigated molecular antigenic targets for the GVM effect such as MM-specific 
idiotypic determinant of immunoglobulin variable regions, several PRAME epitopes 
and antigenic structures encoded by cancer germline-specific genes as candidates 
for immunotherapy trials are discussed.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bmt.1704670
PMID: 15361911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Ter Arkh. 2004;76(7):77-81.

[Expression of PRAME gene in multiple myeloma].

[Article in Russian]

Abramenko IV, Belous NI, Kriachok IA, Chumak AA, Aksenova EV, Lisovskaia EV, 
Misiurin AV.

AIM: To determine clinical significance of PRAME gene expression in multiple 
myeloma (MM) and feasibility of its use as a marker of residual tumor clone.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 35 MM patients, of them 15 were newly diagnosed and 20 had 
resistance to previous therapy. PRAME was made if the patients received 
programmed therapy with high-dose chemotherapy (VD) and autologous 
transplantation of peripheral cell stem cells. 12 PRAME-positive patients were 
examined on the day +100, 5 patients--a year later. Monoclonal paraprotein was 
detected by electrophoresis and radial immunodiffusion of blood serum. Bone 
marrow affection was assessed at roentgenography and/or MRI. PRAME gene 
expression in bone marrow biopsy was measured by reverse transcription and PCR 
amplification.
RESULTS: Activation of expression of PRAME gene in MM was found in 68.57% 
patients. It was higher in patients with MM duration more than 1 year and if 
they were treated before (85%) than in new cases (46.67%). Expression of PRAME 
tended to associate with activity of LDP of blood serum. After the above 
chemotherapy and autotransplantation transcript PRAME did not disappear in 8 of 
12 cases. One year after the treatment, of 5 PRAME-positive patients 2 died, 1 
had recurrence, 2 are in a compete clinicohematological remission.
CONCLUSION: Frequent activation of transcription of the gene PRAME in MM, its 
assay can be used for monitoring of the disease course, assessment of remission 
completeness, detection of tumor cell contamination of preparations of 
autologous stem cells of peripheral blood.

PMID: 15379133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Aktuelle Urol. 2004 Aug;35(4):326-30. doi: 10.1055/s-2004-818510.

[Adaptive immunotherapy of the advanced prostate cancer - cancer testis antigen 
(CTA) as possible target antigens].

[Article in German]

Prikler L(1), Scandella E, Men Y, Engeler DS, Diener PA, Gillessen S, Ludewig B, 
Schmid HP.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie, CH-St. Gallen. ladislav.prikler@kssg.ch

Prostate cancer (PCa) like other tumors expresses antigens that may serve as 
target for specific immunotherapy. Special antigen-presenting cells (e. g., 
dendritic cells) are capable of generating tumor-specific immunity. Cytotoxic 
T-cells (killer cells) are very effective against antigens and, consequently, 
against the respective tissue or tumor. Cancer testis antigens (CTA) are 
expressed in various human cancers but, aside from the testicles, not in normal 
tissue. Therefore, they are suitable for a specific tumor immunotherapy. We 
looked at different CTA (LAGE-1, PRAME, MAGE-C2, NY-ESO-1, SSX-2 and PAGE4) and 
their occurrence in prostatic cancer. Expression of CTA in various PCa cell 
lines and PCa material from patients was very heterogeneous. Only PAGE4 was 
expressed in primary PCa and in LnCaP cells as well as in hormone-dependent and 
hormone-refractory PCa probes. We conclude that PAGE4 should be further 
evaluated as a potential target for immunotherapy of PCa.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2004-818510
PMID: 15459874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Cancer Res. 2004 Dec 15;64(24):9167-71. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-1442.

Intratumor heterogeneity of cancer/testis antigens expression in human cutaneous 
melanoma is methylation-regulated and functionally reverted by 
5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine.

Sigalotti L(1), Fratta E, Coral S, Tanzarella S, Danielli R, Colizzi F, Fonsatti 
E, Traversari C, Altomonte M, Maio M.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Bioimmunotherapy Unit, Department of Medical Oncology, Centro di 
Riferimento Oncologico, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere Scientifico, 
Aviano, Italy.

Cancer/testis antigens (CTA) are suitable targets for immunotherapy of human 
malignancies, and clinical trials are mainly focusing on MAGE-A3. However, the 
heterogeneous intratumor expression of CTA may hamper the effectiveness of 
CTA-directed vaccination through the emergence of CTA-negative neoplastic 
clones. We investigated the intratumor heterogeneity of CTA in human melanoma 
and the underlying molecular mechanism(s) at clonal level using 14 single cell 
clones generated from the melanoma lesion Mel 313. Reverse transcription-PCR 
revealed a highly heterogeneous expression of MAGE-A1, -A2, -A3, -A4, -A6, GAGE 
1-6, SSX 1-5, and PRAME among melanoma clones. Only nine clones expressed 
MAGE-A3 and competitive reverse transcription-PCR identified relative 
differences in the number of mRNA molecules of up to 130-fold between clones 5 
and 14. This clonal heterogeneity of MAGE-A3 expression correlated with the 
methylation status of specific CpG dinucleotides in MAGE-A3 promoter: i.e., 
hypomethylated CpG dinucleotides at positions -321, -151, -19, -16, -5, -2, +21, 
and +42 were found in clones expressing high but not low levels of MAGE-A3. 
Supporting the role of DNA methylation in generating the intratumor 
heterogeneity of CTA, the DNA hypomethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine 
(5-AZA-dCyd) invariably induced their expression in all CTA-negative clones. 
Furthermore, 5-AZA-dCyd-treatment reduced to 6 folds the differential expression 
of MAGE-A3 between clones 5 and 14, which became recognized to a similar extent 
by T cells specific for a MAGE-A-encoded peptide. These findings identify 
promoter methylation as directly responsible for the intratumoral heterogeneity 
of therapeutic CTA in melanoma and foresee the use of 5-AZA-dCyd to overcome the 
limitations set by their intratumor heterogeneous expression to CTA-based 
vaccine therapy.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-1442
PMID: 15604288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2005 Jul;54(7):685-93. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-004-0631-8. Epub 2004 Dec 31.

Dendritic cells generated from acute myeloid leukemia (AML) blasts maintain the 
expression of immunogenic leukemia associated antigens.

Li L(1), Reinhardt P, Schmitt A, Barth TF, Greiner J, Ringhoffer M, Döhner H, 
Wiesneth M, Schmitt M.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Internal Medicine, University of Ulm, Robert-Koch-Street 
8, 89081 Ulm, Germany.

Recently, the focus is on new specific immunotherapies for AML such as cellular 
therapies employing dendritic cells (DCs) generated from AML blasts. AML-DCs 
express constitutionally leukemia-associated antigens (LAAs) present in AML 
blasts they are generated from. Here we investigated whether the generation of 
AML-DCs would alter the expression level of LAAs. Moreover, we evaluated the 
presence of HLA and costimulatory molecules on AML blasts versus AML-DCs. 
Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed for the 
following LAAs: preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), the 
receptor for hyaluronic acid mediated motility (RHAMM/CD168), Wilms' tumor gene 
1 (WT-1) and proteinase 3. The expression of HLA-ABC, HLA-DR, CD40, CD80, CD83 
and CD86 was evaluated by flow cytometry. RHAMM protein expression was evaluated 
by immunocytochemistry, recognition of AML-DCs by PRAME epitope-specific T cells 
was evaluated in a chromium-release assay. Quantitative real-time PCR for 
AML-DCs versus AML blasts showed an alteration in mRNA expression of LAAs. An 
elevated PCR signal for PRAME was detected in 7/12 AML-DC preparations. 6/12 
AML-DC preparations showed a significant upregulation of the PCR signal for 
RHAMM. A stronger WT-1 and proteinase-3 signal was observed in PCR for only 2/12 
and 1/12 AML-DCs , respectively. All preparations showed a strong expression of 
at least one of the LAAs examined. As demonstrated by flow cytometry, AML-DCs 
strongly upregulated costimulatory molecules like CD40 and CD80 in comparison 
with AML blasts. AML-DCs tested positive for RHAMM protein. PRAME positive 
AML-DCs were recognized by specific T cells. AML-DCs might constitute a powerful 
tool in immunotherapy for AML. Real-time PCR allows a quick and quantitative 
assessment of immunologically relevant LAA expression with only 10(5) DCs and 
might be helpful for the decision whether the AML-DC vaccination strategy is 
favourable or not.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-004-0631-8
PMID: 15627212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Cancer Immun. 2005 Feb 1;5:2.

Identification of cancer-testis genes expressed by melanoma and soft tissue 
sarcoma using bioinformatics.

Segal NH(1), Blachere NE, Guevara-Patiño JA, Gallardo HF, Shiu HY, Viale A, 
Antonescu CR, Wolchok JD, Houghton AN.

Author information:
(1)Swim Across America Laboratory, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY 10021, USA. a-houghton@ski.mskcc.org

Cancer-testis or germ cell antigens (GCAs) are a category of tumor antigens 
expressed by male germ cells and by cancers of diverse histological origin, but 
not usually by normal adult somatic tissue. These antigens include products 
encoded by the MAGE, BAGE, GAGE, SSX, and LAGE/NY-ESO-1 families that encode 
antigenic peptides recognized by T lymphocytes. In this study, we exploit 
oligonucleotide technology to identify genes in melanoma and soft tissue sarcoma 
(STS) that display a cancer-testis/GCA expression profile. We identified 59 such 
genes, including GCAs we knew to be recognized by T lymphocytes. Among our 
findings are the expression of PRAME in monophasic synovial sarcoma, PRAME and 
NY-ESO-1 in myxoid/round cell liposarcoma, and SSX2 and members of the GAGE 
family in malignant fibrous histiocytoma. Furthermore, the proto-oncogene 
DBL/MCF2 was identified as encoding a novel candidate GCA expressed by clear 
cell sarcoma/melanoma of soft parts (MSP). DBL/MCF2 peptides that are bound to 
HLA-A*0201 were identified and recognized by T lymphocytes. These results show 
the utility of high-throughput expression analysis in the efficient screening 
and identification of GCA candidates in cancer, and its application to the 
discovery of candidate targets for T cell immunity against GCAs expressed by 
cancer.

PMID: 15683221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Am J Hematol. 2005 Aug;79(4):257-61. doi: 10.1002/ajh.20425.

PRAME mRNA levels in cases with acute leukemia: clinical importance and future 
prospects.

Paydas S(1), Tanriverdi K, Yavuz S, Disel U, Baslamisli F, Burgut R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Cukurova University Faculty of Medicine, Adana, 
Turkey. sepay@cu.edu.tr

The PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) gene has been shown to 
be expressed in high levels in some solid tumors and hemopoietic neoplasias but 
not or only weakly expressed in normal tissues. It encodes an antigen recognized 
by autologous cytolytic T lymphocytes. PRAME is a good candidate for tumor 
immunotherapy and is a useful marker gene for detection of minimal residual 
disease (MRD). In this study, PRAME mRNA using real-time RT-PCR was studied in 
74 adult cases with acute leukemia-68 had de-novo acute leukemia, 3 had chronic 
myeloid leukemia-blastic crisis (CML-BC), and 3 had 
myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative syndrome-blastic transformation 
(MDS/MPD-BT)-and the results were compared with 30 age-matched healthy 
volunteers. Nineteen of 74 cases with leukemia expressed PRAME, while only 2 
controls showed weak expression. The prevalence of PRAME expression in AML and 
ALL cases was 30% and 17%, respectively. We did not find any important 
correlation between PRAME expression and clinical characteristics, such as age, 
sex, organomegaly/lymphadenopathy, Hb, WBC count, platelet count, LDH level, 
alkaline phosphatase, albumin, cell-surface antigens, response to therapy, or 
progression-free and overall survival. PRAME was monitored in 15 cases during 
remission and/or relapse. There was a good correlation between PRAME mRNA and 
hematological remission and/or relapse. Interestingly, PRAME was very high in 
one case with AML but was not found 3 months after allogeneic transplantation. 
PRAME mRNA is observed in about one-third of AML cases; it may be a useful 
marker to detect MRD, and it may also be a good predictor for the timing of 
donor lymphocyte infusions (DLI) in the post-transplant period in cases of 
molecular relapse.

Copyright (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.20425
PMID: 16044453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Cancer Res. 2005 Aug 15;65(16):7348-55. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-4011.

Tumor-associated antigen preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) 
induces caspase-independent cell death in vitro and reduces tumorigenicity in 
vivo.

Tajeddine N(1), Gala JL, Louis M, Van Schoor M, Tombal B, Gailly P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cell Physiology, Center for Human Genetics, Université 
catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is expressed in a wide 
variety of tumors, but in contrast with most other tumor associated antigens, it 
is also expressed in leukemias. The physiologic role of PRAME remains elusive. 
Interestingly, PRAME expression is correlated with a favorable prognosis in 
childhood acute leukemias. Moreover, a high expression of PRAME seems to be 
predominantly found in acute leukemias carrying a favorable prognosis. On these 
clinical observations, we assumed that PRAME could be involved in the regulation 
of cell death or cell cycle. In this study, we show that transient 
overexpression of PRAME induces a caspase-independent cell death in cultured 
cell lines (CHO-K1 and HeLa). Cells stably transfected with PRAME also exhibit a 
decreased proliferation rate due, at least partially, to an elevated basal rate 
of cell death. Immunocytochemistry of a FLAG-tagged PRAME, in vivo imaging of an 
enhanced green fluorescent protein-tagged PRAME, and Western blotting after cell 
fractionation reveal a nuclear localization of the protein. Using a 
microarray-based approach, we show that KG-1 leukemic cells stably transfected 
with PRAME present a significant decrease of expression of the heat-shock 
protein Hsp27, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21, and the 
calcium-binding protein S100A4. The expression of these three proteins is known 
to inhibit apoptosis and has been associated with an unfavorable prognosis in a 
series of cancers. Finally, repression of PRAME expression by a short 
interfering RNA strategy increases tumorigenicity of K562 leukemic cells in nude 
mice. We suggest that all these observations might explain the favorable 
prognosis of the leukemias expressing high levels of PRAME.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-04-4011
PMID: 16103086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. BMC Genomics. 2005 Sep 13;6:120. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-6-120.

Duplication and positive selection among hominin-specific PRAME genes.

Birtle Z(1), Goodstadt L, Ponting C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Anatomy and Genetics, University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 
3QX, UK. zoe.birtle@anat.ox.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The physiological and phenotypic differences between human and 
chimpanzee are largely specified by our genomic differences. We have been 
particularly interested in recent duplications in the human genome as examples 
of relatively large-scale changes to our genome. We performed an in-depth 
evolutionary analysis of a region of chromosome 1, which is copy number 
polymorphic among humans, and that contains at least 32 PRAME (Preferentially 
expressed antigen of melanoma) genes and pseudogenes. PRAME-like genes are 
expressed in the testis and in a large number of tumours, and are thought to 
possess roles in spermatogenesis and oogenesis.
RESULTS: Using nucleotide substitution rate estimates for exons and introns, we 
show that two large segmental duplications, of six and seven human PRAME genes 
respectively, occurred in the last 3 million years. These duplicated genes are 
thus hominin-specific, having arisen in our genome since the divergence from 
chimpanzee. This cluster of PRAME genes appears to have arisen initially from a 
translocation approximately 95-85 million years ago. We identified multiple 
sites within human or mouse PRAME sequences which exhibit strong evidence of 
positive selection. These form a pronounced cluster on one face of the predicted 
PRAME protein structure.
CONCLUSION: We predict that PRAME genes evolved adaptively due to strong 
competition between rapidly-dividing cells during spermatogenesis and oogenesis. 
We suggest that as PRAME gene copy number is polymorphic among individuals, 
positive selection of PRAME alleles may still prevail within the human 
population.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-6-120
PMCID: PMC1262708
PMID: 16159394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Cell. 2005 Sep 23;122(6):835-47. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2005.07.003.

The human tumor antigen PRAME is a dominant repressor of retinoic acid receptor 
signaling.

Epping MT(1), Wang L, Edel MJ, Carlée L, Hernandez M, Bernards R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis and Center for Biomedical Genetics, The 
Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Retinoic acid (RA) induces proliferation arrest, differentiation, and apoptosis, 
and defects in retinoic acid receptor (RAR) signaling have been implicated in 
cancer. The human tumor antigen PRAME is overexpressed in a variety of cancers, 
but its function has remained unclear. We identify here PRAME as a dominant 
repressor of RAR signaling. PRAME binds to RAR in the presence of RA, preventing 
ligand-induced receptor activation and target gene transcription through 
recruitment of Polycomb proteins. PRAME is present at RAR target promoters and 
inhibits RA-induced differentiation, growth arrest, and apoptosis. Conversely, 
knockdown of PRAME expression by RNA interference in RA-resistant human melanoma 
restores RAR signaling and reinstates sensitivity to the antiproliferative 
effects of RA in vitro and in vivo. Our data suggest that overexpression of 
PRAME frequently observed in human cancers confers growth or survival advantages 
by antagonizing RAR signaling.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2005.07.003
PMID: 16179254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Br J Cancer. 2005 Sep 19;93(6):719-29. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602779.

Overexpression of aurora B kinase (AURKB) in primary non-small cell lung 
carcinoma is frequent, generally driven from one allele, and correlates with the 
level of genetic instability.

Smith SL(1), Bowers NL, Betticher DC, Gautschi O, Ratschiller D, Hoban PR, 
Booton R, Santibáñez-Koref MF, Heighway J.

Author information:
(1)1Gene Function Group, Roy Castle Lung Cancer Programme, University of 
Liverpool Cancer Research Centre, 200 London Road, Liverpool L3 9TA, UK.

Aurora kinases are key regulators of chromosome segregation during mitosis. We 
have previously shown by microarray analysis of primary lung carcinomas and 
matched normal tissue that AURKB (22 out of 37) and AURKA (15 out of 37) 
transcripts are frequently over-represented in these tumours. We now confirm 
these observations in a second series of 44 carcinomas and also show that aurora 
B kinase protein levels are raised in the tumours compared to normal tissue. 
Elevated levels of expression in tumours are not a consequence of high-level 
amplification of the AURKB gene. Using a coding sequence polymorphism we show 
that in most cases (seven out of nine) tumour expression is predominantly driven 
from one AURKB allele. Given the function of aurora B kinase, we examined 
whether there was an association between expression levels and genetic 
instability. We defined two groups of high and low AURKB expression. Using a 
panel of 10 microsatellite markers, we found that the group showing the higher 
level of expression had a higher frequency of allelic imbalance (P=0.0012). 
Analysis of a number of other genes that are strongly and specifically expressed 
in tumour over normal lung, including SERPINB5, TERT and PRAME, showed marked 
allelic expression imbalances in the tumour tissue in the context of balanced or 
only marginally imbalanced relative allelic copy numbers. Our data support a 
model of early carcinogenesis wherein defects in the process of inactivation of 
lung stem-cell associated genes during differentiation, contributes to the 
development of carcinogenesis.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6602779
PMCID: PMC2361619
PMID: 16222316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Head Neck. 2006 Jul;28(7):614-9. doi: 10.1002/hed.20380.

Expression of cancer testis antigens in head and neck squamous cell carcinomas.

Figueiredo DL(1), Mamede RC, Proto-Siqueira R, Neder L, Silva WA Jr, Zago MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, 
Faculty of Medicine, 14049-900 Ribeirão Preto, Brazil, University of São Paulo, 
Brazil. davidlaf@terra.com.br

BACKGROUND: There is considerable interest in the expression of cancer testis 
(CT) antigens in human cancers, because they may serve as the basis for 
diagnostic tests or an immunologic approach to therapy, or as prognostic 
markers.
METHODS: On this basis, we evaluated by semiquantitative reverse-transcriptase 
polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) the expression of genes that code for tumor 
antigens (melanoma antigen-1 [MAGE-1], MAGE-4, MAGE-10, MAGE-12, B melanoma 
antigen, CTL-recognized antigen melanoma antigen (CT antigen 2) [LAGE], New York 
esophageal squamous cell carcinoma antigen (CT antigen 1) [NYESO-1], and 
preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma [PRAME]) in surgical samples of the 
tumors, margins, and lymph nodes (when present) from patients with a diagnosis 
of head and neck carcinoma. The study was conducted on 33 patients (31 men and 
two women), aged 31 to 94 years (mean, 56 years), with squamous cell carcinomas 
located in the mouth (15 cases), larynx (14 cases), and pharynx (four cases).
RESULTS: The findings were compared with the clinical course and laboratory 
data. Expression of at least one antigen was observed in 66.6% of cases, with 
different rates of expression according to tumor staging (100% of T4, 57% of T3, 
50% of T1 and T2) and smoking habit. There was a significantly higher expression 
of multiple genes (two or more) in tumors in advanced stages.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the tumor-specific antigen genes are expressed in 
variable frequencies and intensities in the primary lesions of head and neck 
squamous cell carcinomas and in their metastases, with expression of the PRAME 
gene being always present in the metastastatic lymph nodes. In primary lesions, 
gene expression correlated with smoking habit and with advanced tumors with a 
higher malignant potential, with the frequent expression of two or more of these 
genes.

Copyright 2006 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hed.20380
PMID: 16475205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2006 Feb 21;103(8):2794-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0510423103. Epub 2006 Feb 13.

Gene expression changes associated with progression and response in chronic 
myeloid leukemia.

Radich JP(1), Dai H, Mao M, Oehler V, Schelter J, Druker B, Sawyers C, Shah N, 
Stock W, Willman CL, Friend S, Linsley PS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, WA 98109, USA. jradich@fhcrc.org

Chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is a hematopoietic stem cell disease with 
distinct biological and clinical features. The biologic basis of the 
stereotypical progression from chronic phase through accelerated phase to blast 
crisis is poorly understood. We used DNA microarrays to compare gene expression 
in 91 cases of CML in chronic (42 cases), accelerated (17 cases), and blast 
phases (32 cases). Three thousand genes were found to be significantly (P < 
10(-10)) associated with phase of disease. A comparison of the gene signatures 
of chronic, accelerated, and blast phases suggest that the progression of 
chronic phase CML to advanced phase (accelerated and blast crisis) CML is a 
two-step rather than a three-step process, with new gene expression changes 
occurring early in accelerated phase before the accumulation of increased 
numbers of leukemia blast cells. Especially noteworthy and potentially 
significant in the progression program were the deregulation of the 
WNT/beta-catenin pathway, the decreased expression of Jun B and Fos, alternative 
kinase deregulation, such as Arg (Abl2), and an increased expression of PRAME. 
Studies of CML patients who relapsed after initially successful treatment with 
imatinib demonstrated a gene expression pattern closely related to advanced 
phase disease. These studies point to specific gene pathways that might be 
exploited for both prognostic indicators as well as new targets for therapy.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0510423103
PMCID: PMC1413797
PMID: 16477019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts 
declared.


55. Int J Oncol. 2006 Apr;28(4):855-61.

Immunotherapy for patients with acute myeloid leukemia using autologous 
dendritic cells generated from leukemic blasts.

Li L(1), Giannopoulos K, Reinhardt P, Tabarkiewicz J, Schmitt A, Greiner J, 
Rolinski J, Hus I, Dmoszynska A, Wiesneth M, Schmitt M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, D-89081 Ulm, Germany.

Vaccination with dendritic cells (DCs) as professional antigen presenting cells 
generated from autologous leukemic blasts might elicit anti-leukemic T cell 
responses in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). To test this 
hypothesis, autologous AML-DC were generated under good manufacturing practice 
(GMP) conditions and injected s.c. into five AML patients up to four times at a 
biweekly interval. No severe adverse side effects were observed. Three patients 
remained in a stable condition for 5.5-13 months and two patients died from 
rapidly progressive AML. Compared to the initial T cell frequency, enzyme linked 
immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT) assays revealed a significant increase of granzyme 
B releasing CD8+ T cells specifically recognizing the PRAME derived peptide 
(ALYVDSLFFL), a leukemia associated antigen expressed by AML blasts. The 
cytokine levels in the serum of vaccination AML patients as assessed by cytokine 
bead assay changed over the period of vaccination to an elevated type 1 T helper 
cell pattern. Interferon gamma production by CD4+ T helper cells increased 
during vaccination. In summary, we demonstrated that autologous AML-DC 
vaccination is well tolerated and can result in an enhanced and specific 
response of cytotoxic T cells in AML patients.

PMID: 16525634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Int J Cancer. 2006 Sep 15;119(6):1360-7. doi: 10.1002/ijc.21960.

Monitoring of WT1-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes after allogeneic 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Morita Y(1), Heike Y, Kawakami M, Miura O, Nakatsuka S, Ebisawa M, Mori S, 
Tanosaki R, Fukuda T, Kim SW, Tobinai K, Takaue Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Stem Cell Transplantation, National Cancer Center 
Hospital, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Donor-derived cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) that respond to tumor antigens 
emerge after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), particularly in 
association with the status of immune recovery. To analyze the frequency of CTL 
against PR1, PRAME and WT1 after HSCT, a tetramer-based analysis was performed 
in 97 samples taken from 35 patients (9 AML, 11 MDS, 2 CML, 4 ALL, 7 lymphoma 
and 2 renal cell carcinoma [RCC]) with the HLA-A02 phenotype. Regarding PR1, 
only 1 sample showed the presence of tetramer-positive cells (0.04%/lymphocyte). 
Similarly, in PRAME, only 10 of 97 samples were sporadically positive with low 
titers. For WT1, positive results were detected in 39 of 97 samples and 7 (2 
CML, 1 ALL, 2 lymphoma and 2 RCC) patients clearly showed positive results more 
than once. On the basis of these results, we performed serial analyses of 
WT1-specific CTL during the clinical course in 2 patients with RCC, who 
underwent HSCT with a reduced-intensity regimen, to examine the precise 
correlation between the kinetics of CTL, the occurrence of GVHD and the observed 
clinical response. A higher positive rate for WT1-specific CTL and a correlation 
with the clinical response suggest that WT1 may be a useful antigen for a wider 
monitoring application.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.21960
PMID: 16596644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Leuk Res. 2006 Nov;30(11):1333-9. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2006.02.031. Epub
2006  Apr 18.

PRAME is a membrane and cytoplasmic protein aberrantly expressed in chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia and mantle cell lymphoma.

Proto-Siqueira R(1), Figueiredo-Pontes LL, Panepucci RA, Garcia AB, Rizzatti EG, 
Nascimento FM, Ishikawa HC, Larson RE, Falcão RP, Simpson AJ, Gout I, Filonenko 
V, Rego EM, Zago MA.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Division and Center for Cell Based Therapy, Medical School of 
Ribeirão Preto, University of São Paulo, Brazil.

The preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) gene is aberrantly 
expressed in chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (CLD). We produced and 
characterized an anti-PRAME monoclonal antibody (MoAb), which was then applied 
in a quantitative flow cytometric (QFC) method to evaluate PRAME expression in 
leukemic cells from the peripheral blood (PB) of 47 patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia and seven with mantle cell lymphoma as well as in the PB 
mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and B lymphocytes from 15 healthy subjects. 
Approximately 90% of CLD, but none of the normal samples, presented more than 
20% of PRAME+ lymphocytes. Moreover, the intensity of PRAME expression was 
significantly higher in CLD cells compared to normal B lymphocytes and PBMCs. By 
immunofluorescence microscopy and by permeabilized flow cytometry we 
demonstrated that PRAME is a membrane antigen and a cytoplasmic protein 
aberrantly expressed in malignant CLD. Our results suggest that the analysis of 
PRAME protein may contribute for the distinction between normal and leukemic 
cells in CLD, and that PRAME may be a potential target for therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2006.02.031
PMID: 16620968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Clin Cancer Res. 2006 Apr 15;12(8):2434-41. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-05-2552.

Identification of a set of seven genes for the monitoring of minimal residual 
disease in pediatric acute myeloid leukemia.

Steinbach D(1), Schramm A, Eggert A, Onda M, Dawczynski K, Rump A, Pastan I, 
Wittig S, Pfaffendorf N, Voigt A, Zintl F, Gruhn B.

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital Jena, Jena, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Monitoring of minimal residual disease (MRD) has become a strong 
diagnostic tool in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. It is used for risk-adapted 
therapy and for the recognition of pending relapses. In acute myeloid leukemia 
(AML), there is still a need for more suitable MRD markers.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A stepwise approach which combined genome-wide expression 
profiling, TaqMan low density arrays, and a TaqMan real-time PCR-based screening 
was used to identify new markers for the monitoring of MRD in AML. Leukemic 
cells from 52 children with AML and 145 follow-up samples from 25 patients were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Seven genes were identified which are vastly overexpressed in many 
patients with AML compared with healthy bone marrow: CCL23, GAGED2, MSLN, SPAG6, 
and ST18 as well as the previously described markers WT1 and PRAME. The 
expression of all genes decreased to normal levels in patients who achieved a 
continuous complete remission. Elevated levels of at least one gene were found 
prior to relapse in 7 out of 10 patients who relapsed.
CONCLUSIONS: This set of genes should allow a sensitive and specific monitoring 
of MRD in AML. Notably, some of these markers could also serve as therapeutic 
targets or might be involved in leukemogenesis. MSLN is already used as a target 
for immunotherapy in clinical trials in other malignancies.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-05-2552
PMID: 16638849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Haematologica. 2006 May;91(5):596-604.

Common features and differences in the transcriptome of large cell anaplastic 
lymphoma and classical Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Willenbrock K(1), Küppers R, Renné C, Brune V, Eckerle S, Weidmann E, Bräuninger 
A, Hansmann ML.

Author information:
(1)Senckenbergisches Institut für Pathologie, Klinikum der Johann Wolfgang 
Goethe-Universität, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. willenbrock@em.uni-frankfurt.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL) and classical 
Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) are derived from different cell types, namely T cells 
and B cells, respectively. However, both lymphomas share a similar cytological 
and immunohistochemical tumor cell phenotype with little resemblance to their 
cells of origin.
DESIGN AND METHODS: In this study, the transcriptional profiles of ALCL cell 
lines, primary ALCL tumor cells from peripheral blood and HL cell lines were 
compared to each other and to normal B-cell subsets, B non-Hodgkin's lymphomas 
(NHL) and B NHL- and Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-transformed B-cell lines in order 
to establish their relationship at the transcriptional level and to identify 
genes with possible pathobiological impact. Expression of some of the genes 
identified was confirmed in microdissected primary tumor cells by reverse 
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: HL samples clustered separately from ALCL samples, but HL and ALCL were 
found to be more closely related to each other than to any normal or malignant 
B-cell sample in the dataset. Their relationship was determined to a large 
extent, but not exclusively, by lack of expression of B-cell antigens and by the 
over-expression of mRNA encoding activation markers and structural proteins. 
Apart from established differences between HL and ALCL, further genes of 
interest could be identified that distinguish both entities from each other and 
from the other samples. The differential expression of PRAME, DDR2, SOCS3 and 
CEBPD in HL and ALCL was confirmed in primary tumor tissue by 
immunohistochemistry and/or RT-PCR.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: At a transcriptional level HL is more closely 
related to Alk+ ALCL than to the B-NHL or B-cell samples investigated, although 
it is a B-cell derived lymphoma. The newly identified genes discriminating HL 
and ALCL may be pathobiologically important and may serve as possible 
therapeutic targets.

PMID: 16670065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2006;44(5):548-55. doi: 10.1515/CCLM.2006.106.

Real-time RT-PCR quantification of PRAME gene expression for monitoring minimal 
residual disease in acute myeloblastic leukaemia.

Tajeddine N(1), Millard I, Gailly P, Gala JL.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Physiology, Université catholique de Louvain, 1200 
Brussels, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Specific gene rearrangements are used for minimal residual disease 
(MRD) assessment, but are frequently lacking in leukaemias. In these cases, the 
quantification of PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) 
transcripts could be useful.
METHODS: PRAME transcripts were quantified by real-time RT-PCR in normal and 
leukaemic samples, and the results were compared with those of conventional 
RT-PCR. Basal expression of PRAME was determined in 25 blood samples and 25 bone 
marrow samples from healthy donors, as well as in 12 haematological cell lines 
(Jurkat, K562, HL60, DOHH2, IM9, Daudi, CEM, KG1, DG75, 8226, U937, Raji).
RESULTS: In paediatric acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (n=22) and acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) (n=17), and in adult AML (n=20), abnormal PRAME 
expression was found in 41%, 35% and 40% of cases, respectively. To assess the 
sensitivity of PRAME for monitoring MRD, PRAME-positive t(8;21) AML samples with 
detectable AML1/ETO expression by conventional RT-PCR (n=17) were assessed for 
quantitative expression of AML1/ETO and PRAME. The expression of these genes was 
closely correlated. To confirm that PRAME expression was correlated with 
clinical data, the expression of PRAME was also sequentially followed in 
patients (n=13) from onset to cytological remission or relapse. The cytological 
and molecular data were highly correlated in all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data confirm that PRAME quantification by real-time RT-PCR 
appears suitable for monitoring MRD in PRAME-positive leukaemia.

DOI: 10.1515/CCLM.2006.106
PMID: 16681423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Clin Cancer Res. 2006 May 15;12(10):3130-6. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-05-2578.

Detection and functional analysis of CD8+ T cells specific for PRAME: a target 
for T-cell therapy.

Griffioen M(1), Kessler JH, Borghi M, van Soest RA, van der Minne CE, Nouta J, 
van der Burg SH, Medema JP, Schrier PI, Falkenburg JH, Osanto S, Melief CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
Netherlands. M.Griffioen@lumc.nl

PURPOSE: Preferentially expressed antigen on melanomas (PRAME) is an interesting 
antigen for T-cell therapy because it is frequently expressed in melanomas (95%) 
and other tumor types. Moreover, due to its role in oncogenic transformation, 
PRAME-negative tumor cells are not expected to easily arise and escape from 
T-cell immunity. The purpose of this study is to investigate the usefulness of 
PRAME as target for anticancer T-cell therapies.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: HLA-A*0201-subtyped healthy individuals and advanced 
melanoma patients were screened for CD8+ T cells directed against previously 
identified HLA-A*0201-binding PRAME peptides by IFN-gamma enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent spot assays and tetramer staining. PRAME-specific T-cell clones 
were isolated and tested for recognition of melanoma and acute lymphoid leukemia 
(ALL) cell lines. PRAME mRNA expression was determined by quantitative real-time 
reverse transcription-PCR.
RESULTS: In 30% to 40% of healthy individuals and patients, 
PRA(100-108)-specific CD8+ T cells were detected both after in vitro stimulation 
and directly ex vivo after isolation by magnetic microbeads. Although CD45RA- 
memory PRA(100-108)-specific T cells were found in some individuals, the 
majority of PRA(100-108)-tetramer+ T cells expressed CD45RA, suggesting a naive 
phenotype. PRA(100-108)-tetramer+ T-cell clones were shown to recognize and lyse 
HLA-A*0201+ and PRAME+ melanoma but not ALL cell lines. Quantitative real-time 
reverse transcription-PCR showed significantly lower PRAME mRNA levels in ALL 
than in melanoma cell lines, suggesting that PRAME expression in ALL is below 
the recognition threshold of our PRA(100-108)-tetramer+ T cells.
CONCLUSION: These data support the usefulness of PRAME and in particular the 
PRA(100-108) epitope as target for T-cell therapy of PRAME-overexpressing 
cancers.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-05-2578
PMID: 16707612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Cancer Res. 2006 Jun 1;66(11):5892-900. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-2868.

BCR-ABL is not an immunodominant antigen in chronic myelogenous leukemia.

Grünebach F(1), Mirakaj V, Mirakaj V, Müller MR, Brümmendorf T, Brossart P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oncology, Immunology, and Rheumatology, University 
of Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany.

In the present study, we analyzed the involvement of the BCR-ABL protein in the 
induction of antigen-specific CTL in order to develop an immunotherapeutic 
approach in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). To accomplish 
this, we generated dendritic cells (DC) in vitro and electroporated them with 
various sources of RNA harboring the chimeric bcr-abl transcript. These 
genetically engineered DCs were used as antigen-presenting cells for the 
induction of CTLs. By applying this approach, we found that the CTLs induced by 
DCs transfected with RNA extracted from bcr-abl-positive K-562 cells or CML 
blasts lysed DCs transfected with the corresponding RNA, but failed to recognize 
epitopes derived from the chimeric BCR-ABL fusion protein in (51)Cr-release 
assays. In contrast, they were able to lyse autologous DCs electroporated with 
RNA isolated from patients with acute myeloid leukemia, indicating that antigens 
shared among these malignant cells are involved and recognized by these CTLs. In 
patients with CML in complete cytogenetic remission during IFN-alpha treatment, 
we detected some reactivity of CD8(+) T cells against BCR-ABL in IFN-gamma 
ELISPOT assays, which was weaker as compared with proteinase 3 (PR3)- or 
prame-directed responses, suggesting that the BCR-ABL protein is less 
immunogenic as compared with other CML-derived antigens.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-05-2868
PMID: 16740729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Int J Oncol. 2006 Jul;29(1):95-103.

Expression of RHAMM/CD168 and other tumor-associated antigens in patients with 
B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Giannopoulos K(1), Li L, Bojarska-Junak A, Rolinski J, Dmoszynska A, Hus I, 
Greiner J, Renner C, Döhner H, Schmitt M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, D-89081 Ulm, Germany.

Antigen targeted immunotherapies might represent a novel treatment for B-cell 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). We screened the mRNA expression of 
tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) from the literature (fibromodulin, survivin, 
OFA-iLRP, BAGE, G250, MAGE1, PRAME, proteinase, syntaxin, hTERT, WT-1) and TAAs 
defined previously by serological analysis of cDNA expression libraries from 
leukemic cells (PINCH, HSJ2, MAZ, MPP11, RHAMM/CD168, NY-Ren60). Peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells from 43 B-CLL patients and 20 healthy volunteers (HVs) 
were examined by conventional and quantitative RT-PCR. mRNA of RHAMM/CD168, 
fibromodulin, syntaxin and NY-Ren60 was expressed in 55-90%, and mRNA of HSJ2, 
MAZ and OFAiLRP was expressed in 90-100% of the patients. No expression of WT-1, 
hTERT, BAGE, G250, MAGE1 or survivin was observed. Low (2-20%) expression 
frequencies of MPP11, PINCH, PRAME and proteinase were detected. RHAMM/CD168, 
fibromodulin, PRAME and MPP11 showed expression in B-CLL patients, but not in 
HVs. Because of the exquisite tissue expression of RHAMM/CD168 and its high 
expression frequency in CLL patients, mixed lymphocyte peptide culture (MLPC), 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent spot (ELISPOT) and flow cytometry were performed for 
antigen specific T-cells. In MLPC, RHAMM specific responses by 
CD8+HLA-A2/R3tetramer+CCR7-CD45RAhigh effector T-cells were detected. 
RHAMM/CD168 might be a possible target for future immunotherapies in both 
ZAP-70(+) and ZAP-70(-) B-CLL patients.

PMID: 16773189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2006 Jul;65(7):675-84. doi: 
10.1097/01.jnen.0000225907.90052.e3.

Microarray analysis reveals differential gene expression patterns in tumors of 
the pineal region.

Fèvre-Montange M(1), Champier J, Szathmari A, Wierinckx A, Mottolese C, Guyotat 
J, Figarella-Branger D, Jouvet A, Lachuer J.

Author information:
(1)University Claude-Bernard Lyon 1, Hôpital Neurologique, BP Lyon Montchat, 
Lyon, France. montange@lyon.inserm.fr

Several types of tumors are known to originate from the pineal region, among 
them pineal parenchymal tumors (PPTs) and papillary tumors of the pineal region 
(PTPRs), probably derived from the subcommissural organ. As a result of their 
rarity, their histologic diagnosis remains difficult. To identify molecular 
markers, using CodeLink oligonucleotide arrays, gene expression was studied in 3 
PPTs (2 pineocytomas and one pineoblastoma), 2 PTPRs, and one chordoid glioma, 
another rare tumor of the third ventricle. Because PTPR and chordoid glioma may 
present ependymal differentiation, gene expression was also analyzed in 4 
ependymomas. The gene patterns of the 3 PPTs fell in the same cluster. The 
pineocytomas showed high expression of TPH, HIOMT, and genes related to 
phototransduction in the retina (OPN4, RGS16, and CRB3), whereas the 
pineoblastoma showed high expression of UBEC2, SOX4, TERT, TEP1, PRAME, CD24, 
POU4F2, and HOXD13. Using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction on 13 
PPTs, we demonstrated that PRAME, CD24, POU4F2, and HOXD13 might be candidates 
for grading PPT with intermediate differentiation. PTPRs, classified with 
chordoid glioma and separately from ependymomas, showed high expression of 
SPEDF, KRT18, and genes encoding proteins reported to be expressed in the 
subcommissural organ, namely ZFH4, RFX3, TTR, and CGRP. Our results highlight 
the usefulness of gene expression profiling for classify tumors of the pineal 
region and identify genes with potential use as diagnostic markers.

DOI: 10.1097/01.jnen.0000225907.90052.e3
PMID: 16825954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Leuk Res. 2007 May;31(5):639-42. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2006.06.006. Epub
2006  Jul 24.

Quantitative assessment of PRAME expression in diagnosis of childhood acute 
leukemia.

Spanaki A(1), Perdikogianni C, Linardakis E, Kalmanti M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, University Hospital of 
Heraklion, University of Crete Medical School, 71110 Heraklion, Crete, Greece.

PRAME is expressed at low levels in normal testes and highly in solid tumor 
cells and hematological malignancies. The purpose of this study was to 
investigate PRAME expression levels in children with acute leukemia with 
real-time PCR analysis. Seventeen children with newly diagnosed or relapsed 
acute leukemia (11 ALL, 4 AML, 1 acute myeloblastic leukemia secondary to MDS, 1 
ALL at relapse) and a control group of seven children were studied. 
Overexpression of PRAME was found in 52.9% (3 AML, 6 ALL) of the patients 
studied. No important correlation between PRAME expression and the patients' 
prognosis was observed. The above findings indicate that PRAME expression in 
acute leukemia does not seem to be of prognostic significance, whereas it might 
represent a candidate marker for the monitoring of minimal residual disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2006.06.006
PMID: 16860864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Leuk Res. 2007 Mar;31(3):365-9. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2006.06.022. Epub 2006
 Aug 17.

PRAME mRNA levels in cases with chronic leukemia: Clinical importance and review 
of the literature.

Paydas S(1), Tanriverdi K, Yavuz S, Seydaoglu G.

Author information:
(1)Cukurova University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Oncology, 01330 
Adana, Turkey. sepay@cu.edu.tr

Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is a tumor antigen 
expressed in various malignant tumors including solid tumors and hemopoietic 
neoplasias but no or weak expression in normal tissues. The aim of this study is 
to determine the frequency and the clinical importance of PRAME expression in 
chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)/chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPD) and 
chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). PRAME mRNA was measured by real time RT-PCR 
in 88 cases with chronic leukemia (CL) and 42 controls. Seventy cases had 
CML/CMPD (56 had chronic phase (CP)-14 had accelerated/blastic phase disease 
(AP/BP) and 18 cases had CLL (11 had early stage (Rai 0-I-II) and 7 had late 
stage (Rai III-IV). Mann Whitney U, Wilcoxon and Kruskal Wallis tests were used 
for statistical analyses. Twenty-four of 70 (34%) cases with CML/CMPD and 5 of 
18 (28%) cases with CLL showed PRAME expression. Totally 29 of 88 cases showed 
PRAME expression (33%). However, only two controls showed weak PRAME expression. 
The difference for PRAME mRNA between the CLs and controls was significant (p = 
0.000). PRAME (+) and PRAME (-) cases were not different for age, Hb, Hct, WBC 
count, platelet count, stage of the disease and response to therapy. PRAME was 
monitorised in eight cases during follow-up: in three cases PRAME was negative 
at CP and expression developed at the AP/BP disease. PRAME was positive at the 
beginning in five cases (4 CML-1CLL) and expression disappeared after 
chemotherapy. In conclusion, PRAME is detected in one third of the cases with 
CLs. PRAME mRNA changes may be detected during the progression of these 
disorders and/or after therapy. PRAME mRNA may be a useful marker to detect the 
minimal residual disease (MRD) and to determine the response to therapy in CLs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2006.06.022
PMID: 16914202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Blood. 2006 Dec 15;108(13):4109-17. doi: 10.1182/blood-2006-01-023127. Epub
2006  Aug 24.

Expression of tumor-associated antigens in acute myeloid leukemia: Implications 
for specific immunotherapeutic approaches.

Greiner J(1), Schmitt M, Li L, Giannopoulos K, Bosch K, Schmitt A, Dohner K, 
Schlenk RF, Pollack JR, Dohner H, Bullinger L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, Robert-Koch-Str.8, 
89081 Ulm, Germany. jochen.greiner@uniklinik-ulm.de

Comment in
    Blood. 2009 Jan 29;113(5):1203-4.

The expression of tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) might play a critical role in 
the control of minimal residual disease (MRD) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML), 
and therefore might be associated with clinical outcome in AML. In a DNA 
microarray analysis of 116 AML samples, we found a significant correlation 
between high mRNA levels of G250/CA9 and longer overall survival (P = .022), a 
similar trend with high mRNA levels of PRAME (P = .103), and a hint for 
RHAMM/HMMR. In contrast, for other TAAs like WT1, TERT, PRTN3, BCL2, and LAMR1, 
we found no correlation with clinical outcome. High expression of at least 1 of 
the 3 TAAs, RHAMM/HMMR, PRAME, or G250/CA9, provided the strongest favorable 
prognostic effect (P = .005). Specific T-cell responses were detected in 8 (47%) 
of 17 patients with AML in complete remission for RHAMM/HMMR-R3 peptide, in 7 
(70%) of 10 for PRAME-P3 peptide, and in 6 (60%) of 10 for newly characterized 
G250/CA9-G2 peptide, a significant increased immune response compared with 
patients with AML patients who had refractory disease (P < .001). Furthermore, 
we could demonstrate specific lysis of T2 cells presenting these epitope 
peptides. In conclusion, expression of the TAAs RHAMM/HMMR, PRAME, and G250/CA9 
can induce strong antileukemic immune responses, possibly enabling MRD control. 
Thus, these TAAs represent interesting targets for polyvalent immunotherapeutic 
approaches in AML.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2006-01-023127
PMID: 16931630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Eur J Cancer. 2006 Nov;42(16):2807-14. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.06.018. Epub 
2006 Sep 15.

Childhood acute myelogenous leukaemia: association between PRAME, apoptosis- and 
MDR-related gene expression.

Goellner S(1), Steinbach D, Schenk T, Gruhn B, Zintl F, Ramsay E, Saluz HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Leibniz Institute for Natural 
Products Research and Infection Biology, Beutenbergstrasse 11a, 07745 Jena, 
Germany.

The gene PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) encodes an antigen 
recognised by autologous cytolytic T lymphocytes. The mRNA level of PRAME is 
used as a tumour marker due to its overexpression in various malignancies. 
Furthermore, it is known that the overexpression of genes encoding antiapoptotic 
proteins leads to the survival of leukaemic cells via exclusion of apoptosis. On 
the other hand, overexpression of genes encoding ABC transporters may lead to 
multi drug resistance (MDR). Therefore, we investigated whether there is a 
relationship between PRAME overexpression and the expression of apoptosis- and 
MDR-related genes in childhood de novo acute myelogenous leukaemia (AML) patient 
samples and, furthermore, whether this is a general or an AML-subtype specific 
event. Microarray analysis and real time quantitative PCR revealed that clinical 
samples showing PRAME upregulation are associated with a decreasing expression 
of genes coding for apoptotic proteins and an overexpression of genes encoding 
ABC transporters. Our results indicate that patients showing PRAME upregulation 
may have an increased risk of MDR induction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.06.018
PMID: 16978861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Eur J Cancer. 2006 Nov;42(16):2846-54. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.06.026. Epub 
2006 Sep 22.

Expression analysis of stage III serous ovarian adenocarcinoma distinguishes a 
sub-group of survivors.

Partheen K(1), Levan K, Osterberg L, Horvath G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Göteborg University, SE-413 45 Göteborg, Sweden. 
karolina.partheen@oncology.gu.se

It is difficult to predict the clinical outcome for patients with ovarian 
cancer. However, the use of biomarkers as additional prognostic factors may 
improve the outcome for these patients. In order to find novel candidate 
biomarkers, differences in gene expressions were analysed in 54 stage III serous 
ovarian adenocarcinomas with oligonucleotide microarrays containing 27,000 
unique probes. The microarray data was verified with quantitative real-time 
polymerase chain reaction for the genes TACC1, MUC5B and PRAME. Using 
hierarchical cluster analysis we detected a sub-group that included 60% of the 
survivors. The gene expressions in tumours from patients in this sub-group of 
survivors were compared with the remaining tumours, and 204 genes were found to 
be differently expressed. We conclude that the sub-group of survivors might 
represent patients with favourable tumour biology and sensitivity to treatment. 
A selection of the 204 genes might be used as a predictive model to distinguish 
patients within and outside of this group. Alternative chemotherapy strategies 
could then be offered as first-line treatment, which may lead to improvements in 
the clinical outcome for these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2006.06.026
PMID: 16996261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Neoplasia. 2006 Oct;8(10):833-42. doi: 10.1593/neo.06415.

Tumor mRNA-transfected dendritic cells stimulate the generation of CTL that 
recognize neuroblastoma-associated antigens and kill tumor cells: 
immunotherapeutic implications.

Morandi F(1), Chiesa S, Bocca P, Millo E, Salis A, Solari M, Pistoia V, Prigione 
I.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Oncology, G. Gaslini Children's Hospital, Genoa, Italy. 
fabiomorandi@ospedale-gaslini.ge.it

Several observations suggest a potential role of T-cell-mediated immunity in the 
control of neuroblastoma (NB). However, the generation of NB-specific cytotoxic 
T lymphocytes (CTL) on T-cell priming with tumor mRNA-transfected dendritic 
cells (DC) has never been investigated before. In the present study, the 
feasibility of this strategy has been analyzed, both in healthy donors and in NB 
patients. Monocyte-derived DC were raised from three human leukocyte antigen 
(HLA) A2+ NB patients and seven HLA-A1+ or HLA-A2+ healthy donors transfected 
with mRNA from four NB cell lines and cocultured with autologous CD8+ 
lymphocytes. Expanded CTL expressed an effector/memory phenotype and a T 
cytotoxic 1-like profile of cytokine secretion. CTL specificity was demonstrated 
by interferon-gamma release on incubation with HLA-matched NB cell lines. The 
latter cell lines, but not autologous T-cell blasts, were lysed by CTL in an 
HLA-restricted manner. Cytotoxicity was found to involve the release of granzyme 
B. When tested for reactivity against NB-associated antigens, CTL from normal 
individuals recognized anaplastic lymphoma-associated kinase (ALK) and 
preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) peptides only, whereas 
patients' CTL reacted also to survivin, telomerase, and tyrosine hydroxylase 
peptides. This study demonstrates that DC transfected with NB mRNA induce the 
generation of patients' CTL specific for different NB-associated antigens, 
supporting the feasibility of NB T-cell immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1593/neo.06415
PMCID: PMC1715922
PMID: 17032500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Exp Hematol. 2006 Nov;34(11):1496-504. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2006.06.010.

Identification of HLA class I-restricted tumor-associated antigens in adult T 
cell leukemia cells by mass spectrometric analysis.

Kawahara M(1), Hori T, Matsubara Y, Okawa K, Uchiyama T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 
University, Kyoto, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: In this study, we attempted a comprehensive analysis of MHC class 
I-bound peptides in adult T cell leukemia (ATL) cells in order to identify as 
many tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) as possible that could be used for 
CTL-based immunotherapy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using mass spectrometry combined with reversed-phase liquid 
chromatography, we could sequence 188 HLA class I-restricted candidate peptides 
from three ATL-derived cell lines. In accordance with the restrained expression 
of HTLV-I viral RNA in these cell lines, there were no HTLV-I-encoded peptides 
among these candidates. Based on the differential expression between ATL cells 
and normal CD4+ T cells, we selected 10 novel peptides as T cell epitopes of 
overexpressed source proteins. RT-PCR analysis revealed that 5 source proteins 
including PRAME, a known tumor-testis antigen, were highly expressed in the 
majority of 16 ATL cases. Furthermore we could induce PRAME-specific CTLs in 
vitro from an HLA-B62+ healthy donor that showed specific cytotoxicity against 
HLA-B62+ PRAME+ ATL cells.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that comprehensive analysis of HLA class 
I-bound peptides by mass spectrometry is useful for identification of 
TAA-derived peptides in ATL. Considering that expression patterns of 
leukemia/lymphoma-associated antigens vary from case to case, this approach 
appears to be suitable for the tailor-made immunotherapy of hematological 
malignancies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2006.06.010
PMID: 17046569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Cancer Res. 2006 Nov 15;66(22):10639-42. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-06-2522.

A causal role for the human tumor antigen preferentially expressed antigen of 
melanoma in cancer.

Epping MT(1), Bernards R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis and Center for Biomedical Genetics, The 
Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Tumor antigens are of interest as diagnostic and prognostic markers and 
potential therapeutic targets. The tumor antigen preferentially expressed 
antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is frequently overexpressed in a wide variety of 
cancers and is a prognostic marker for clinical outcome. It has been shown 
recently that PRAME functions as a repressor of retinoic acid signaling. Here, 
we discuss this novel insight in the context of the increasing interest in tumor 
antigens as targets for therapy.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-06-2522
PMID: 17108098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Exp Hematol. 2006 Dec;34(12):1709-19. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2006.07.009.

Chronic myeloid leukemia cells express tumor-associated antigens eliciting 
specific CD8+ T-cell responses and are lacking costimulatory molecules.

Schmitt M(1), Li L, Giannopoulos K, Chen J, Brunner C, Barth T, Schmitt A, 
Wiesneth M, Döhner K, Döhner H, Greiner J.

Author information:
(1)3rd Department of Internal Medicine, Ulm, Germany.

Specific immunotherapies for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) might 
eliminate residual CML cells after therapy with imatinib or chemotherapy and 
might enhance a specific graft-versus-leukemia effect after allogeneic stem cell 
transplantation. Here, we investigated the mRNA expression and T-cell 
recognition of tumor-associated antigens or leukemia-associated antigens (LAAs) 
in 34 patients with CML. Several LAAs are expressed in CML and therefore are 
candidate structures for specific immunotherapies: bcr-abl (100%), G250 (24%), 
hTERT (53%), MPP11 (91%), NEWREN60 (94%), PRAME (62%), Proteinase3 (71%), 
RHAMM/CD168 (83%), and WT1 (53%), but not BAGE, MAGE-A1, SSX2, or NY-ESO-1. The 
frequency of mRNA expression of RHAMM/CD168, Proteinase3, and PRAME was higher 
in acceleration phase and blast crisis. In flow cytometry, CD34+ progenitor 
cells typed positive for HLA molecules but were deficient for CD40, CD80, CD83, 
and CD86. However, RHAMM/CD168 R3-peptide (ILSLELMKL)-specific T-cell responses 
in CML patients were demonstrated by ELISPOT analysis and specific lysis of 
RHAMM/CD168 R3-pulsed T2 cells and CD34+ CML cells in chromium-51 release 
assays. RHAMM-R3-specific T cells could be phenotyped as 
CD8+R3*tetramer+CD45RA+CCR7-CD27- early effector T cells by tetramer staining. 
Therefore, vaccination strategies inducing such RHAMM-R3-directed effector T 
cells might be a promising approach to enhance specific immune responses against 
CML cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2006.07.009
PMID: 17157168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Leuk Res. 2007 Nov;31(11):1521-8. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2007.02.016. Epub
2007  Mar 26.

Epigenetic regulation of PRAME gene in chronic myeloid leukemia.

Roman-Gomez J(1), Jimenez-Velasco A, Agirre X, Castillejo JA, Navarro G, 
Jose-Eneriz ES, Garate L, Cordeu L, Cervantes F, Prosper F, Heiniger A, Torres 
A.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Department, Reina Sofia Hospital, Avda, Menendez Pidal s/n, 14004, 
Cordoba, Spain. peperosa@teleline.es

Tumor associated antigens (TAA) provide attractive targets for cancer-specific 
immunotherapy. PRAME is a TAA gene up-regulated in advanced phases of chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML). To date, molecular mechanisms for the expression of 
PRAME have never been studied. We found that some Ph'-positive cell lines did 
not express PRAME. The expression of PRAME was restored in these cell lines by 
treatment with 5'-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, suggesting that the expression of PRAME 
is mainly suppressed by hypermethylation. Bisulfite sequencing analysis of the 
CpG sites of the PRAME exon 2 in these cancer cell lines revealed a close 
relationship between the methylation status of the PRAME gene and its 
expression. A methylation-specific PCR analysis demonstrated that 
hypomethylation of PRAME was significantly more frequent in CML blast crisis 
(70%) than in chronic phase (36%) (P=0.01) and was correlated with high 
expression levels of PRAME transcripts (P<0.0001). These results suggest that 
hypomethylation of PRAME up-regulates its expression in CML and might play a 
significant role in the progression of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2007.02.016
PMID: 17382387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Genes Chromosomes Cancer. 2007 Sep;46(9):796-804. doi: 10.1002/gcc.20465.

Hypomethylation of PRAME is responsible for its aberrant overexpression in human 
malignancies.

Schenk T(1), Stengel S, Goellner S, Steinbach D, Saluz HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Leibniz Institute for Natural 
Products Research and Infection Biology-Hans Knoell Institute, 07745 Jena, 
Germany.

The preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is expressed at high 
levels in large fractions of human malignancies, e.g., acute myeloid leukemia. 
Therefore, PRAME is an important marker for diagnosis of various malignant 
diseases and a relevant parameter for monitoring minimal residual disease. It is 
supposed to be involved in tumorigenic processes. Because of these important 
aspects we investigated its transcriptional regulation in detail. Most relevant 
was a detailed DNA methylation analysis of the PRAME 5' region by genomic 
sequencing in correlation with PRAME expression in various human patient samples 
and cell lines. In combination with DNA-truncation/transfection experiments with 
respect to DNA methylation, we show that changes in the methylation pattern in 
defined parts of the regulatory regions of PRAME are sufficient for its 
upregulation in cells usually not expressing the gene.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/gcc.20465
PMID: 17534929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2008 May;109(2):359-65. doi:
10.1007/s10549-007-9643-3.  Epub 2007 Jul 12.

Prevalence and prognostic and predictive relevance of PRAME in breast cancer.

Doolan P(1), Clynes M, Kennedy S, Mehta JP, Crown J, O'Driscoll L.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Cellular Biotechnology, Dublin City University, Dublin 
9, Ireland.

Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) has been described as a 
potential candidate for immunotherapeutic targeting. However, the prognostic and 
predictive relevance of PRAME in breast cancer has never been investigated. 
PRAME gene expression was evaluated in 103 breast tumour biopsies, using 
quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Normal 
breast tissue was also analysed for comparative purposes. All qRT-PCRs were 
performed in triplicate. Kaplan-Meier survival curves, Chi-squared and Cox 
Regression analyses were used to identify associations between PRAME expression 
and patients' clinicopathological and survival data. PRAME mRNA was detected in 
approximately 53% of tumour specimens and 37% of normal breast specimens. 
Kaplan-Meier analysis showed expression of PRAME to correlate significantly with 
unfavourable disease outcome for patients, in terms of both their disease-free 
survival (p = 0.0004) and overall survival (OS) (p = 0.0052) times from 
diagnosis. Multivariate analysis indicated PRAME expression to be an independent 
prognostic factor for shortened disease-free survival (p = 0.026) and OS (p = 
0.02). Furthermore, for patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy, 
significantly (p = 0.0291) shorter relapse-free survival was achieved for those 
whose tumour expressed PRAME, compared to those that did not express this 
transcript. Our results suggest that PRAME mRNA expression may be a useful 
prognostic and predictive marker for breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-007-9643-3
PMID: 17624586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2007 Sep 15;223(3):288-98. doi: 
10.1016/j.taap.2007.05.019. Epub 2007 Jun 14.

Corepressors of agonist-bound nuclear receptors.

Gurevich I(1), Flores AM, Aneskievich BJ.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Pharmacology/Toxicology, Department of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, School of Pharmacy, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT 06269, USA.

Nuclear receptors (NRs) rely on coregulator proteins to modulate transcription 
of target genes. NR coregulators can be broadly subdivided into coactivators 
which potentiate transcription and corepressors which silence gene expression. 
The prevailing view of coregulator action holds that in the absence of agonist 
the receptor interacts with a corepressor via the corepressor nuclear receptor 
(CoRNR, "corner") box motifs within the corepressor. Upon agonist binding, a 
conformational change in the receptor causes the shedding of corepressor and the 
binding of a coactivator which interacts with the receptor via NR boxes within 
the coregulator. This view was challenged with the discovery of RIP140 which 
acts as a NR corepressor in the presence of agonist and utilizes NR boxes. Since 
then a number of other corepressors of agonist-bound NRs have been discovered. 
Among them are LCoR, PRAME, REA, MTA1, NSD1, and COPR1 Although they exhibit a 
great diversity of structure, mechanism of repression and pathophysiological 
function, these corepressors frequently have one or more NR boxes and often 
recruit histone deacetylases to exert their repressive effects. This review 
highlights these more recently discovered corepressors and addresses their 
potential functions in transcription regulation, disease pharmacologic responses 
and xenobiotic metabolism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2007.05.019
PMCID: PMC2148130
PMID: 17628626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Cancer Genet Cytogenet. 2007 Aug;177(1):51-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.cancergencyto.2007.05.011.

PRAME expression is not associated with down-regulation of retinoic acid 
signaling in primary acute myeloid leukemia.

Steinbach D(1), Pfaffendorf N, Wittig S, Gruhn B.

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital Ulm, Eythstrasse 24, Ulm 89075, Germany. 
Daniel@Steinba.ch

The tumor antigen preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is 
frequently overexpressed in a wide variety of malignant diseases, including 
acute myeloid leukemia (AML). It was recently shown that PRAME can function as a 
repressor of retinoic acid signaling, as indicated by down-regulation of 
retinoic acid receptor-beta (RARB) and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1A 
(CDKN1A). Another study suggested that PRAME can induce caspase-independent 
apoptosis via down-regulation of heat shock 27-kDa protein 1 (HSPB1) and S100 
calcium-binding protein A4 (S100A4). The transcriptional repression of PRAME 
depends on the formation of a complex with the enhancer of zeste homolog 2 
(EZH2). To test whether these mechanisms play an important roll in AML, we 
analyzed the expression of PRAME, EZH2, RARB, HSPB1, S100A4, and CDKN1A by 
real-time polymerase chain reaction in primary leukemic cells from 52 children 
with AML. All genes were expressed in many patients, but the level of expression 
of the last four genes was not associated with either PRAME expression or PRAME 
and EZH2 co-expression. In conclusion, the above mechanisms do not seem to play 
a major role in the pathogenesis of AML; they could be neutralized by other 
pathways that affect the same targets.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cancergencyto.2007.05.011
PMID: 17693191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Pathol. 2007 Oct;213(2):180-9. doi: 10.1002/path.2229.

Systematic search for the best gene expression markers for melanoma 
micrometastasis detection.

Soikkeli J(1), Lukk M, Nummela P, Virolainen S, Jahkola T, Katainen R, Harju L, 
Ukkonen E, Saksela O, Hölttä E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Haartman Institute, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland.

Melanoma is notorious for its high tendency to metastasize and its 
refractoriness to treatment thereafter. Metastasis is believed to occur mostly 
through the lymphatic system, and the status of sentinel lymph nodes is 
currently recognized as the best prognostic indicator. Unfortunately, the 
lymphatic metastatic process is still poorly understood and the occurrence of 
sentinel node metastases (micrometastases) may be underestimated. We performed 
genome-wide gene expression analyses of melanoma lymph node micrometastases and 
macrometastases, and of primary melanomas and benign naevi, to characterize the 
early metastatic cells molecularly and to disclose the best diagnostic markers 
and rational targets for therapy. Significance analysis of microarrays 
identified 22 over- and five under-expressed genes with > or = four-fold changes 
in the micrometastases. Of these genes, MLANA, TYR, MIA, ERBB3, PRAME, and SPP1 
were tested as potential markers by RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. In a 
prospective study of 160 patients, our graded MLANA and TYR RT-PCR analyses 
disclosed clinically significant metastases, as assessed by disease recurrence, 
better than histological and immunohistochemical examinations. These results 
strongly suggest the clinical implementation of quantifiable RT-PCR assays to 
confirm and complement the pathological examination of sentinel node metastases. 
Furthermore, SPP1 and PRAME proved valuable as melanoma-specific markers capable 
of differentiating melanoma cells from benign naevi in the sentinel lymph nodes. 
Importantly, these two genes may also prove to be ideal targets for drug 
development and therapy. Most molecular traits of the micrometastases were 
already present in the primary tumours, suggesting that micrometastasis to 
sentinel lymph nodes is a fairly non-selective process.

DOI: 10.1002/path.2229
PMID: 17891747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Nov 6;104(45):17777-82. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0702518104. Epub 2007 Oct 29.

A functional genetic screen identifies retinoic acid signaling as a target of 
histone deacetylase inhibitors.

Epping MT(1), Wang L, Plumb JA, Lieb M, Gronemeyer H, Brown R, Bernards R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis and Center for Biomedical Genetics, The 
Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, 1066 CX, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Understanding the pathways that are targeted by cancer drugs is instrumental for 
their rational use in a clinical setting. Inhibitors of histone deacetylases 
(HDACI) selectively inhibit proliferation of malignant cells and are used for 
the treatment of cancer, but their cancer selectivity is understood poorly. We 
conducted a functional genetic screen to address the mechanism(s) of action of 
HDACI. We report here that ectopic expression of two genes that act on retinoic 
acid (RA) signaling can cause resistance to growth arrest and apoptosis induced 
by HDACI of different chemical classes: the retinoic acid receptor alpha 
(RARalpha) and preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME), a repressor 
of RA signaling. Treatment of cells with HDACI induced RA signaling, which was 
inhibited by RARalpha or PRAME expression. Conversely, RAR-deficient cells and 
PRAME-knockdown cells show enhanced sensitivity to HDACI in vitro and in mouse 
xenograft models. Finally, a combination of RA and HDACI acted synergistically 
to activate RA signaling and inhibit tumor growth. These experiments identify 
the RA pathway as a rate-limiting target of HDACI and suggest strategies to 
enhance the therapeutic efficacy of HDACI.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0702518104
PMCID: PMC2077016
PMID: 17968018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


81. Cancer Genomics Proteomics. 2007 Sep-Oct;4(5):359-67.

Genome-wide expression profiling reveals new insights into pathogenesis and 
progression of testicular germ cell tumors.

Biermann K(1), Heukamp LC, Steger K, Zhou H, Franke FE, Sonnack V, Brehm R, Berg 
J, Bastian PJ, Muller SC, Wang-Eckert L, Buettner R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany. 
katharina.biermann@ukb.uni-bonn.de

Testicular germ cell tumors (GCT) are the most frequent malignancy in young 
adults and arise from intratubular germ cell neoplasia undetermined (IGCNU, also 
referred to as carcinoma in situ, CIS). To determine the transcriptional 
programs involved in the transition from normal germ cells to GCT, and to 
further elucidate genetic differences between seminomas and non-seminomatous GCT 
the global expression profile of 12 neoplastic and 3 normal testicular tissues 
were investigated by whole genome cDNA microarrays. Transcriptional differences 
between seminomas and embryonal carcinomas were determined and gene signatures 
characterizing histological subtypes of GCT were identified. The most 
significant difference between seminomas and embryonal carcinomas was the 
expression of spermatogenesis-associated genes (PRAME, MAGEA4, SPAG1, HPX) in 
seminomas and regulatory genes DNMT3B and SOX2 as well as small molecular weight 
keratins KRT8, KRT18 in embryonal carcinomas. The expression of several selected 
genes (CK18, MAGE-A4, SOX2, DNMT3B, CD30, KIT) was studied by 
immunohistochemistry or reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) 
in a large collective of GCT. In summary, our data identified tumor 
type-specific gene signatures of GCT and provided new insights into genetic 
pathways driving the transition to seminomas and embryonal carcinomas from their 
respective precursor lesions.

PMID: 17993720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Dec;15(6):1144-9.

[Expression of PRAME gene in acute leukemia and its clinical significance].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu YL(1), Liu J, Zhu P, DU JW, Zhang Y, Gu JY.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Hematology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 100034, 
China.

This study was aimed to detect the expression levels of preferentially expressed 
antigen of melanoma (PRAME) gene in acute leukemia (AL) and to evaluate the 
clinical significance of PRAME gene. The quantitative detection method was 
established by SYBR Green I real-time quantitative RT-PCR, then PRAME mRNA was 
measured by this method in 55 cases of acute leukemia, out of which 43 cases 
were acute myeloid leukemia (AML), 9 cases were acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) 
and other types leukemia were 3 cases. In addition, expression of PRAME gene was 
also analyzed in 7 cases of non-malignant hematological diseases and 8 healthy 
volunteers. K562 cell line was used as a positive control. The results showed 
that the expression of PRAME gene was found in 35 cases of acute leukemia, the 
positive percentage was 64%. No expression could be detected in any of the 
non-malignant hematological diseases and healthy volunteers. In 35 PRAME 
positive cases, 28 cases were AML, which mainly belonged to M3, M4 and M2 
subtypes, and 5 cases was ALL. In 31 fusion gene positive cases, 23 cases were 
PRAME positive, and in 24 fusion gene negative cases 12 cases were PRAME 
positive. No significant relationship was found between PRAME expression level 
and clinical characteristics (age, sex, WBC count, blast cells in BM). The 
expression of PRAME gene decreased or disappeared in 6 patients achieving 
complete remission (CR). It is concluded that the PRAME gene expresses in 64% 
AML patients, which mainly belonged to M3, M4 and M2 subtypes, no expression 
could be detected in any of the non-malignant hematological diseases and healthy 
volunteers. There is remarkable difference in the level of PRAME transcript of 
the 35 cases and the expression of PRAME gene decreases or disappears when the 
patients achieved complete remission. These results suggest that PRAME 
expression in acute leukemia may be a useful marker to detect the minimal 
resi-dual disease (MRD) and to determine the response to therapy in AL patients.

PMID: 18088454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Dec;15(6):1177-81.

[Expression of PRAME gene in adult acute leukemia and its significance in 
prognosis].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou PY(1), Li WJ, Wei CX, Zhou Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital, Kunming Medical 
College, Kunming 650031, China. pyzhou81@163.com

The study was aimed to investigate the expression of preferentially expressed 
antigen of melanoma (PRAME) gene in adult acute leukemia and its clinical 
significance. The expression of the PRAME gene of bone marrow was measured by 
reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) in 73 adult newly 
diagnosed acute leukemia patients, 3 relapsed patients, 7 patients with 
idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) and 8 healthy donors, as well as two 
AL cell-lines (K562 and U937). The results indicated that PRAME mRNA was 
expressed in 42.9% AML patients (n=24) and 20% ALL patients (n=4), also in two 
leukemia cell-lines K562 and U937, but not in eight health donors and seven ITP 
patients. PRAME expression not correlated to the white blood count, hemoglobin 
level, platelet count and the percentage of blasts at diagnosis, yet independent 
of age, sex, and FAB type. PRAME mRNA expression in complete remission group 
seems much higher than those in partial complete remission group and death 
group. The increased levels of expression could be found prior to the relapse in 
one patient being regularly monitored. PRAME gene was overexpressed in adult 
acute leukemia patients and leukemia cell-lines. It is concluded that the 
expression of PRAME is an indicator of favorable prognosis and can be a useful 
tool for monitoring minimal residual disease (MRD) in adult acute leukemia. 
Differential expression between adult acute leukemia patients and healthy 
volunteers suggests that the immunogenic antigens PRAME are potential candidates 
for immunotherapy in adult acute leukemia.

PMID: 18088461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Cancer Immun. 2008 Feb 1;8:2.

Prognostic impact of cancer/testis antigen expression in advanced stage multiple 
myeloma patients.

Andrade VC(1), Vettore AL, Felix RS, Almeida MS, Carvalho F, Oliveira JS, 
Chauffaille ML, Andriolo A, Caballero OL, Zago MA, Colleoni GW.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Hematology and Hemotherapy, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, 
UNIFESP, São Paulo, Brazil.

This study aims to analyze the expression of 14 cancer/testis (CT) antigens in 
multiple myeloma (MM) to identify possible prognostic markers and therapeutic 
targets. The expression of MAGEA1, MAGEA2, MAGEA3/6, MAGEA4, MAGEA10, MAGEA12, 
BAGE1, MAGEC1/CT7, the GAGE family, LAGE-1, PRAME, NY-ESO-1, SPA17 and SSX1 was 
studied by RT-PCR in 15 normal tissues, a pool of 10 normal bone marrow samples, 
3 normal tonsils and bone marrow aspirates from 6 normal donors, 3 monoclonal 
gammopathies of undetermined significance (MGUS), 5 solitary plasmacytomas, 39 
MM samples (95% advanced stage) and the MM cell line U266. MAGEC1/CT7 was 
expressed in bone marrow aspirates from one MGUS and one plasmacytoma. The 
frequencies at which CT antigen were found to be expressed in MM patients were 
MAGEC1/CT7 77%, LAGE-1 49%, MAGEA3/6 41%, MAGEA2 36%, GAGE family 33%, NY-ESO-1 
33%, BAGE-1 28%, MAGEA1 26%, PRAME 23%, SSX-1 26%, MAGEA12 20.5%, MAGEA4 0%, and 
MAGEA10 0%. Cox's regression model showed that GAGE family expression and having 
>6 CT antigens expressed were independent prognostic factors when all patients 
were analyzed. However, MAGEC1/CT7 expression was the only independent 
prognostic factor when non-transplanted patients where analyzed. Based on our 
findings, MAGEC1/CT7, MAGEA3/6 and LAGE-1 are good candidates for immunotherapy, 
since together they cover 85% of our MM cases. Furthermore, expression of the 
GAGE family, >6 CT antigens and MAGEC1/CT7 seem to have impact on MM prognosis.

PMCID: PMC2935785
PMID: 18237105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Leuk Res. 2008 Sep;32(9):1400-6. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2007.12.010. Epub
2008  Mar 4.

PRAME expression in hairy cell leukemia.

Arons E(1), Suntum T, Margulies I, Yuan C, Stetler-Stevenson M, Kreitman RJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratories of Molecular Biology and Clinical Pathology, Center for Cancer 
Research, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892-4255, United States.

Comment in
    Leuk Res. 2008 Sep;32(9):1356-7.

PRAME has been proposed as a useful marker for solid tumors and acute B-cell 
malignancies. Several studies demonstrate expression in CLL. To further examine 
its B-cell tumor distribution, we studied PRAME in both CLL and hairy cell 
leukemia (HCL). While by conventional PCR only 8% of 37 HCL and 27% of 22 CLL 
patients were positive, nearly all patients and normal donors expressed PRAME by 
real-time quantitative (TaqMan) PCR. We conclude that HCL and CLL differ in 
PRAME overexpression, and that basal normal expression of PRAME may limit its 
usefulness for following patients with minimal residual CLL or HCL.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2007.12.010
PMCID: PMC2447527
PMID: 18295331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Leuk Res. 2008 Sep;32(9):1356-7. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2008.02.024. Epub
2008  Apr 9.

Is everything known in all faces of iceberg in PRAME?

Paydas S.

Comment on
    Leuk Res. 2008 Sep;32(9):1400-6.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2008.02.024
PMID: 18400297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Exp Hematol. 2008 Jul;36(7):886-96. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2008.02.014. Epub
2008  Apr 8.

Gene expression profiles of Hodgkin's lymphoma cell lines with different 
sensitivity to cytotoxic drugs.

Staege MS(1), Banning-Eichenseer U, Weissflog G, Volkmer I, Burdach S, Richter 
G, Mauz-Körholz C, Föll J, Körholz D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Cancer Research Center. 
Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The prognosis of patients with Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) has been 
significantly improved as a result of combination treatment including 
chemotherapy. However, some patients are refractory to chemotherapy. Therefore, 
identification of new targets might be useful for development of alternative 
treatment strategies. In addition, identification of markers associated with 
chemoresistance can be used to identify patients with increased risk of relapse.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: By using high-density DNA microarrays, we analyzed the 
gene-expression profile of HL-cell lines in comparison to a set of normal 
tissues. Furthermore, we tested the sensitivity of HL cells for cytotoxic drugs 
(cisplatin, etoposide, melphalan) and compared the gene-expression profile of 
chemotherapy-resistant and -sensitive cell lines. Differentially expressed genes 
were validated by polymerase chain reaction and flow cytometry.
RESULTS: In addition to genes with high expression in all cell lines, we 
observed differences between the gene-expression profile of 
chemotherapy-resistant and -sensitive cells. Genes upregulated in resistant 
cells include cytokine receptors (IL5RA, IL13RA1), markers expressed on 
antigen-presenting cells (CD40, CD80), as well as genes with known association 
to chemoresistance, e.g., myristoylated alanine-rich protein kinase C substrate. 
In addition, the tumor antigen PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma) was expressed in resistant cell lines only.
CONCLUSION: Genes with high expression in HL cells might be potential targets 
for development of future therapeutic interventions. Expression of tumor 
antigens together with costimulatory molecules in chemotherapy-resistant HL 
cells might become targets for cytotoxic T-cell responses against HL cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2008.02.014
PMID: 18400362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Leuk Lymphoma. 2008 Jun;49(6):1123-31. doi: 10.1080/10428190802035933.

Tumor associated antigen PRAME is a marker of favorable prognosis in childhood 
acute myeloid leukemia patients and modifies the expression of S100A4, Hsp 27, 
p21, IL-8 and IGFBP-2 in vitro and in vivo.

Tajeddine N(1), Louis M, Vermylen C, Gala JL, Tombal B, Gailly P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cell Physiology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, 
Belgium.

Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is expressed in a wide 
variety of tumors, but in contrast with most other tumor associated antigens, it 
is also expressed in leukemias. In a previous study, we showed that 
overexpression of PRAME induced apoptosis, inhibited cell proliferation and 
reduced tumorigenicity of leukemic cells in vivo. We also demonstrated that 
PRAME overexpression induced the repression of three genes (Hsp27, S100A4 and 
p21) associated with an unfavorable prognosis in leukemia. Here, we further 
investigated the mechanisms of PRAME-induced tumor suppression in vitro and in 
vivo. We performed a gene profiling study by analysing PRAME shRNA-silenced 
leukemic cells on high-density micro-arrays (Affymetrix) and found that PRAME 
altered the expression of two additional genes potentially involved in 
cancerogenesis and cancer progression: IL-8 and IGFBP-2. In a series of 28 acute 
myeloid leukemia pediatric patients, we observed that PRAME expression was 
associated with an increased leukemia-free survival. Importantly, the 
correlation between PRAME expression in leukemic cell lines and the decreased 
expression of Hsp27, S100A4, p21, IL-8 and the increased expression of IGFBP-2 
was also observed in vivo, in leukemic patients. Our results suggest that the 
favorable prognosis of PRAME could be mediated, at least in part, by the 
modified expression of those genes.

DOI: 10.1080/10428190802035933
PMID: 18452107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Leukemia. 2008 Sep;22(9):1721-7. doi: 10.1038/leu.2008.161. Epub 2008 Jun 12.

Hematopoietic stem cells and progenitors of chronic myeloid leukemia express 
leukemia-associated antigens: implications for the graft-versus-leukemia effect 
and peptide vaccine-based immunotherapy.

Yong AS(1), Keyvanfar K, Eniafe R, Savani BN, Rezvani K, Sloand EM, Goldman JM, 
Barrett AJ.

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Allotransplantation Section, Hematology Branch, National Heart, 
Lung and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, M20892-1202, 
USA. yonga@nhlbi.nih.gov

The cure of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients following allogeneic stem 
cell transplantation (SCT) is attributed to graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effects 
targeting alloantigens and/or leukemia-associated antigens (LAA) on leukemia 
cells. To assess the potential of LAA-peptide vaccines in eliminating leukemia 
in CML patients, we measured WT1, PR3, ELA2 and PRAME expression in CD34+ 
progenitor subpopulations in CML patients and compared them with minor 
histocompatibility antigens (mHAgs) HA1 and SMCY. All CD34+ subpopulations 
expressed similar levels of mHAgs irrespective of disease phase, suggesting that 
in the SCT setting, mHAgs are the best target for GVL. Furthermore, WT1 was 
consistently overexpressed in advanced phase (AdP) CML in all CD34+ 
subpopulations, and mature progenitors of chronic phase (CP) CML compared to 
healthy individuals. PRAME overexpression was limited to more mature AdP-CML 
progenitors only. Conversely, only CP-CML progenitors had PR3 overexpression, 
suggesting that PR1-peptide vaccines are only appropriate in CP-CML. Surface 
expression of WT1 protein in the most primitive hematopoietic stem cells in 
AdP-CML suggest that they could be targets for WT1 peptide-based vaccines, which 
in combination with PRAME, could additionally improve targeting differentiated 
progeny, and benefit patients responding suboptimally to tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors, or enhance GVL effects in SCT patients.

DOI: 10.1038/leu.2008.161
PMCID: PMC2574650
PMID: 18548092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Ann Hematol. 2008 Oct;87(10):809-18. doi: 10.1007/s00277-008-0514-8. Epub
2008  Jun 28.

Aberrant hypomethylation of the cancer-testis antigen PRAME correlates with 
PRAME expression in acute myeloid leukemia.

Ortmann CA(1), Eisele L, Nückel H, Klein-Hitpass L, Führer A, Dührsen U, 
Zeschnigk M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Hämatologie, Zentrum für Konservative Onkologie, 
Universitätsklinikum Essen, Hufelandstrasse 55, 45122, Essen, Germany. 
christina.ortmann@uk-essen.de

PRAME is a tumor-associated antigen, which belongs to the family of 
cancer-testis antigens (CTA). The expression of CTA is mainly restricted to the 
testis and various tumors. In contrast to other CTA, PRAME expression is also 
frequently detected in acute and chronic leukemias. Due to this expression 
pattern, PRAME has attracted great interest as a prognostic tumor marker that 
can be used for the detection of minimal residual disease and as a potential 
target for immunotherapy. In acute myeloid leukemia (AML), PRAME expression has 
been observed in 30-64% of cases. To evaluate whether epigenetic mechanisms 
contribute to PRAME activation in AML, we studied DNA methylation of 15 CpG 
dinucleotides within a CpG-rich region located in the intron 1 of the PRAME 
gene. DNA methylation was determined by sequence analysis of cloned PCR products 
generated from bisulfite-treated genomic DNA. Methylation patterns were 
correlated with PRAME mRNA levels as determined by microarray analysis and 
real-time PCR. We found almost complete methylation in mononuclear blood cells 
from two healthy donors and in bone marrow cells of four PRAME-negative AML 
patients. In contrast, the degree of PRAME methylation was clearly reduced in 
four PRAME-positive AML bone marrow samples. In particular, these samples were 
characterized by the presence of clones, which were completely devoid of 
methylation. The significant inverse correlation between the degree of 
methylation and PRAME expression suggests a causal role of DNA methylation in 
PRAME regulation. Such a role is further supported by the observation that 
treatment of PRAME-negative cell lines U-937 and THP-1 with the demethylating 
agent 5'-Aza-2'dC resulted in a dose-related upregulation of PRAME expression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-008-0514-8
PMID: 18587578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Blood. 2008 Sep 1;112(5):1876-85. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-04-150045. Epub
2008  Jun 30.

Cytotoxic T lymphocytes directed to the preferentially expressed antigen of 
melanoma (PRAME) target chronic myeloid leukemia.

Quintarelli C(1), Dotti G, De Angelis B, Hoyos V, Mims M, Luciano L, Heslop HE, 
Rooney CM, Pane F, Savoldo B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, The Methodist 
Hospital and Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

The cancer testis antigen (CTA) preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma 
(PRAME) is overexpressed in many hematologic malignancies, including chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML). The sensitivity of CML to donor lymphocyte infusion 
after allogeneic stem cell transplantation suggests this tumor can be highly 
susceptible to cellular immunotherapy targeted to tumor associated antigens. We 
therefore tested whether functional PRAME-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes 
(PRAME CTLs) could be generated and expanded from healthy donors and CML 
patients, or whether the limited immunogenicity of this CTA coupled with 
tumor-associated anergy would preclude this approach. Using optimized culture 
conditions and HLA-A*02-restricted PRAME-peptides, we have consistently 
generated PRAME CTLs from 8/9 healthy donors and 5/6 CML patients. These CTLs 
released IFNgamma in response to PRAME peptides (between 113 +/- 8 and 795 +/- 
23 spot forming cells/10(5) T cells) and lysed PRAME peptide-loaded cells (45 
+/- 19% at an effector:target [E:T] ratio of 20:1) in a MHC-restricted fashion. 
Importantly, these CTLs recognized and had cytotoxic activity against 
HLA-A*02(+)/PRAME(+) tumor cell lines, and could recognize and respond to 
primary CML cells. PRAME CTLs were generated almost exclusively from the naive 
T-cell compartment, and clonal analysis showed these cells could have high 
alphabetaTCR-peptide avidity. PRAME CTLs or vaccines may thus be of value for 
patients with CML.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-04-150045
PMCID: PMC3401035
PMID: 18591381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Br J Cancer. 2008 Aug 5;99(3):398-403. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604494. Epub 2008
 Jul 22.

PRAME expression and clinical outcome of breast cancer.

Epping MT(1), Hart AA, Glas AM, Krijgsman O, Bernards R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Carcinogenesis and Centre for Biomedical Genetics, The 
Netherlands Cancer Institute, Plesmanlaan 121, Amsterdam 1066 CX, The 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Br J Cancer. 2008 Aug 5;99(3):385-6.

The tumour antigen PReferentially expressed Antigen of MElanoma (PRAME) is 
expressed in a variety of malignancies, including breast cancer. We have 
analysed PRAME gene expression in relation to clinical outcome for 295 primary 
breast cancer patients. Kaplan-Meier survival curves show a correlation of PRAME 
expression levels with increased rates of distant metastases and decreased 
overall patient survival. This correlation existed both for the entire patient 
group (n=295) and for the subgroup of patients (n=185) who did not receive 
adjuvant chemotherapy. Multivariable analysis indicated that PRAME is an 
independent marker of shortened metastasis-free interval in patients who did not 
receive adjuvant chemotherapy. PRAME expression was associated with tumour grade 
and negative oestrogen receptor status. We conclude that PRAME expression is a 
prognostic marker for clinical outcome of breast cancer, independent of 
traditional clinicopathological markers.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604494
PMCID: PMC2527791
PMID: 18648365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Int J Cancer. 2008 Nov 1;123(9):2130-7. doi: 10.1002/ijc.23758.

Four potential biomarkers as prognostic factors in stage III serous ovarian 
adenocarcinomas.

Partheen K(1), Levan K, Osterberg L, Claesson I, Fallenius G, Sundfeldt K, 
Horvath G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden. 
karolina.partheen@gu.se

The mortality rate for patients with ovarian carcinomas is high and the 
available prognostic factors are insufficient. The use of biomarkers may 
contribute to better prediction and survival for these patients. We aimed to 
study the gene and protein expressions for 7 potential biomarkers, to determine 
if it is possible to use them as prognostic factors. Genes selected from our 
previous microarray analysis (2006), CLU, ITGB3, TACC1, MUC5B, CAPG, PRAME and 
TROAP, were analyzed in 19 of the tumors with quantitative real-time polymerase 
chain reaction (QPCR). We found that CLU and ITGB3 were more expressed in tumors 
from survivors and PRAME and CAPG were more expressed in tumors from deceased 
patients. None of the other 3 genes were significantly differently expressed. 
The protein expressions of CLU, ITGB3, PRAME and CAPG were analyzed in 43 of the 
tumors with western blot for semiquantitative analysis. We established that the 
mRNA and protein expressions correlated and that all 4 proteins were 
significantly differently expressed. Further, immunohistochemistry (IHC) was 
used to localize the expression of the proteins in the tumor samples. According 
to our results, the 4 biomarkers CLU, ITGB3, PRAME and CAPG may be used as 
prognostic factors for patients with stage III serous ovarian adenocarcinomas.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.23758
PMID: 18709641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Haematologica. 2008 Dec;93(12):1797-805. doi: 10.3324/haematol.13214. Epub
2008  Sep 24.

The relevance of preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) as a 
marker of disease activity and prognosis in acute promyelocytic leukemia.

Santamaría C(1), Chillón MC, García-Sanz R, Balanzategui A, Sarasquete ME, 
Alcoceba M, Ramos F, Bernal T, Queizán JA, Peñarrubia MJ, Giraldo P, San Miguel 
JF, Gonzalez M.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario, Salamanca, Spain,

BACKGROUND: The gene for preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) 
has been shown to be over-expressed in acute promyelocytic leukemia, but its 
actual incidence and clinical impact are still unknown.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We studied PRAME expression at diagnosis using real-time 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction in 125 patients with acute promyelocytic 
leukemia enrolled in the Spanish PETHEMA-96 (n=45) and PETHEMA-99 (n=80) 
clinical trials. In addition, PRAME expression was evaluated as a marker of 
disease activity in 225 follow-up samples from 67 patients with acute 
promyelocytic leukemia.
RESULTS: At diagnosis, PRAME expression in patients with acute promyelocytic 
leukemia was significantly higher (p<0.001) than in patients with non-M3 acute 
myeloid leukemia (n=213) and in healthy controls (n=10). Furthermore, patients 
with acute promyelocytic leukemia with high PRAME expression had a favorable 
outcome. Thus, the 5-year relapse-free survival was better in patients with 
>100-fold PRAME expression (86% vs. 74%; p=0.03), and this cut-off established 
two sub-groups with different relapse-free survival rates among patients with a 
white cell count <10(9)/L (5-year relapse-free survival 94% vs. 80%, p=0.01). 
This effect was similar in patients with a white cell count >10(9)/L, although 
differences were not statistically significant. In multivariate analysis, white 
cell count >10(9)/L (p<0.001), bone marrow blasts >90% (p=0.001), and PRAME 
expression <100-fold (p=0.009) were associated with short relapse-free survival. 
Samples at remission showed PRAME levels similar to those in normal controls 
while samples at relapse over-expressed PRAME again. Furthermore, 12/13 samples 
collected within the 6-month period preceding relapse showed a >10-fold increase 
in PRAME expression levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Low PRAME expression defines a subgroup of patients with acute 
promyelocytic leukemia with a short relapse-free survival. This marker could be 
useful as a secondary marker for monitoring patients with acute promyelocytic 
leukemia.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.13214
PMID: 18815192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Leuk Res. 2009 Mar;33(3):384-90. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2008.08.026. Epub
2008  Oct 23.

Expression patterns of WT1 and PRAME in acute myeloid leukemia patients and 
their usefulness for monitoring minimal residual disease.

Qin Y(1), Zhu H, Jiang B, Li J, Lu X, Li L, Ruan G, Liu Y, Chen S, Huang X.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, Peking University People's Hospital, 11 Xi-zhi-men South Street, 
Beijing 100044, People's Republic of China.

Comment in
    Leuk Res. 2009 May;33(5):603-4.

Both WT1 and PRAME are highly expressed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 
patients. To assess the efficacy of their simultaneous detection for the purpose 
of monitoring minimal residual disease (MRD), we used real-time quantitative 
RT-PCR to quantify both WT1 and PRAME transcript levels in the bone marrow of 
204 newly diagnosed AML patients, and 21 patients were serially monitored for a 
median of 11 months. The 22 normal bone marrow samples which served as controls 
collectively expressed low levels of WT1 and PRAME. An increase of >1-log over 
the upper limit of normal bone marrow was defined as positive. The positive 
rates of WT1 and PRAME for all patients were 79.2% and 55.4%, respectively. For 
the 108 patients lacking a specific fusion gene, the positive rate of WT1 was 
significantly higher than that of PRAME (76.9% vs. 35.2%, P<0.001). PRAME was 
positive in 9/25 WT1 (-) patients and the log increase of PRAME was higher than 
that of WT1 in 12/83 WT1 (+) patients. Dynamic patterns of WT1 and PRAME during 
follow-up showed that a consistent elevation or a rise over time to exceed the 
normal range predicted clinical relapse. The exception was that one patient's 
WT1 significantly decreased at relapse compared to diagnosis. Therefore, a 
simultaneous detection of WT1 and PRAME might not only provide AML patients with 
either a positive or a more sensitive molecular marker for MRD monitoring. 
Moreover, it might also avoid false negativity in the case of expression 
alteration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2008.08.026
PMID: 18950857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Blood. 2009 Mar 26;113(13):3059-69. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-07-170183. Epub
2008  Nov 4.

Uniparental disomies, homozygous deletions, amplifications, and target genes in 
mantle cell lymphoma revealed by integrative high-resolution whole-genome 
profiling.

Beà S(1), Salaverria I, Armengol L, Pinyol M, Fernández V, Hartmann EM, Jares P, 
Amador V, Hernández L, Navarro A, Ott G, Rosenwald A, Estivill X, Campo E.

Author information:
(1)Hematopathology Unit, Department of Pathology, Hospital Clinic, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is genetically characterized by the t(11;14)(q13;q32) 
translocation and a high number of secondary chromosomal alterations. However, 
only a limited number of target genes have been identified. We have studied 10 
MCL cell lines and 28 primary tumors with a combination of a high-density 
single-nucleotide polymorphism array and gene expression profiling. We detected 
highly altered genomes in the majority of the samples with a high number of 
partial uniparental disomies (UPDs). The UPD at 17p was one of the most common, 
and it was associated with TP53 gene inactivation. Homozygous deletions targeted 
4 known tumor suppressor genes (CDKN2C, BCL2L11, CDKN2A, and RB1) and 6 new 
genes (FAF1, MAP2, SP100, MOBKL2B, ZNF280A, and PRAME). Gene amplification 
coupled with overexpression was identified in 35 different regions. The most 
recurrent amplified regions were 11q13.3-q13.5, 13q31.3, and 18q21.33, which 
targeted CCND1, C13orf25, and BCL2, respectively. Interestingly, the breakpoints 
flanking all the genomic alterations, including UPDs, were significantly 
associated with genomic regions enriched in copy number variants and segmental 
duplications, suggesting that the recombination at these regions may play a role 
in the genomic instability of MCL. This integrative genomic analysis has 
revealed target genes that may be potentially relevant in MCL pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-07-170183
PMCID: PMC2662646
PMID: 18984860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Blood. 2009 Mar 5;113(10):2245-55. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-03-144071. Epub
2008  Nov 6.

Ex vivo characterization of polyclonal memory CD8+ T-cell responses to 
PRAME-specific peptides in patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia and acute 
and chronic myeloid leukemia.

Rezvani K(1), Yong AS, Tawab A, Jafarpour B, Eniafe R, Mielke S, Savani BN, 
Keyvanfar K, Li Y, Kurlander R, Barrett AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Imperial College, Hammersmith Campus, London, 
United Kingdom. k.rezvani@imperial.ac.uk

Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is aberrantly expressed in 
hematologic malignancies and may be a useful target for immunotherapy in 
leukemia. To determine whether PRAME is naturally immunogenic, we studied CD8(+) 
T-cell responses to 4 HLA-A*0201-restricted PRAME-derived epitopes (PRA100, 
PRA142, PRA300, PRA425) in HLA-A*0201-positive patients with acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL), acute myeloid leukemia (AML), chronic myeloid leukemia (CML), 
and healthy donors. CD8(+) T cells recognizing PRAME peptides could be detected 
ex vivo in 4 of 10 ALL, 6 of 10 AML, 3 of 10 CML patients, and 3 of 10 donors by 
HLA-A2 tetramer analysis and flow cytometry for intracellular interferon-gamma. 
The frequency of PRAME-specific CD8(+) T cells was greater in patients with AML, 
CML, and ALL than healthy controls. All peptides were immunogenic in patients, 
while responses were only detected to PRA300 in donors. High PRAME expression in 
patient peripheral blood mononuclear cells was associated with responses to 
greater than or equal to 2 PRAME epitopes compared with low PRAME expression 
levels (4/7 vs 0/23, P = .001), suggesting a PRAME-driven T-cell response. 
PRAME-specific T cells were readily expanded in short-term cultures in donors 
and patients. These results provide evidence for spontaneous T cell reactivity 
against multiple epitopes of PRAME in ALL, AML, and CML. The potential for 
developing PRAME as a target for immunotherapy in leukemia deserves further 
exploration.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-03-144071
PMCID: PMC2652370
PMID: 18988867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Clin Cancer Res. 2008 Nov 15;14(22):7161-6. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-1102.

Leukemia-associated antigens are critical for the proliferation of acute myeloid 
leukemia cells.

Greiner J(1), Bullinger L, Guinn BA, Döhner H, Schmitt M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany. 
jochen.greiner@uniklinik-ulm.de

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is the most common acute leukemia in adults. With 
intensive induction therapy, most patients younger than 60 years achieve 
complete remission. However, even if these younger patients were treated 
intensively, more than 50% will relapse. Clinical results of patients older than 
60 years are more unfavorable. Therefore, in all patients with AML, the overall 
survival is still low. In the past decade, several leukemia-associated antigens 
(LAA) have been identified in patients with acute myeloid leukemia. BAGE, BCL-2, 
OFA-iLRP, FLT3-ITD, G250, hTERT, PRAME, proteinase 3, RHAMM, survivin, and WT-1 
are all LAAs that have been shown to induce CD8+ T-cell recognition and for some 
antigens also humoral immune responses. Interestingly, most of these LAAs are 
linked to cell cycle or proliferation. This article discusses the balance 
between LAA-driven leukemia cell expansion and the elimination of these cells 
through attacks on LAAs by the immune system. Current knowledge of the function 
and CD8+ T-cell recognition of LAAs is reviewed and an outlook is given on how 
to improve T-cell responses to LAAs in acute myeloid leukemia cells.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-1102
PMID: 19010831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Leuk Res. 2009 Sep;33(9):1276-81. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2008.10.010. Epub
2008  Nov 21.

Array CGH analysis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia reveals frequent cryptic 
monoallelic and biallelic deletions of chromosome 22q11 that include the PRAME 
gene.

Gunn SR(1), Bolla AR, Barron LL, Gorre ME, Mohammed MS, Bahler DW, Mellink CH, 
van Oers MH, Keating MJ, Ferrajoli A, Coombes KR, Abruzzo LV, Robetorye RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.

We used BAC array-based CGH to detect genomic imbalances in 187 CLL cases. 
Submicroscopic deletions of chromosome 22q11 were observed in 28 cases (15%), 
and the frequency of these deletions was second only to loss of the 13q14 
region, the most common genomic aberration in CLL. Oligonucleotide-based array 
CGH analysis showed that the 22q11 deletions ranged in size from 0.34 Mb up to 
approximately 1 Mb. The minimally deleted region included the ZNF280A, ZNF280B, 
GGTLC2, and PRAME genes. Quantitative real-time PCR revealed that ZNF280A, 
ZNF280B, and PRAME mRNA expression was significantly lower in the 22q11 deletion 
cases compared to non-deleted cases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2008.10.010
PMID: 19027161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Zhonghua Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Jul;29(7):441-5.

[PRAME mRNA expression in newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia patients and 
its application to monitoring minimal residual disease].

[Article in Chinese]

Qin YZ(1), Li JL, Zhu HH, Li LD, Chang Y, Hao L, Wang YZ, Jiang B, Lu XJ, Liu 
YR, Huang XJ, Chen SS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology, People's Hospital of Peking University, Beijing 
100044, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression level of preferentially expressed 
antigen of melanoma (PRAME) mRNA in newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) 
patients and evaluate its usefulness for detecting minimal residual disease 
(MRD).
METHODS: PRAME mRNA levels were detected in bone marrow samples from 142 newly 
diagnosed AML patients (72 of them didn't express any specific fusion gene) by 
TaqMan based real-time quantitative PCR methods, and were serially monitored in 
60 bone marrow samples from 9 follow-up patients (2 of them without specific 
fusion gene), including 3 in continuous complete remission, 6 in hematological 
relapse. Bone marrow samples from 22 bone marrow donors (NBM) were served as 
normal controls. Samples from 7 AML1-ETO (+) M2 patients were detected for 
AML1-ETO mRNA simultaneously. abl was selected as control gene, PRAME and 
AML1-ETO mRNA levels were expressed by their copies/abl copies in percentage.
RESULTS: All NBM samples expressed PRAME mRNA and the upper limit was 0.28%. For 
all newly diagnosed AML patients, median PRAME mRNA level was 3.97% 
(0.00%-714.97%), 76.8% of them was higher than 0.28%, 54.9% had over 1-log 
increasing and 26.1% had over 2-log increasing. For patients without specific 
fusion gene, median PRAME mRNA level was 0.60% (0.00%-408.72%), 56.3% of them 
was over 0.28%, 32.4% and 11.3% had over 1-log and 2-log increasing, 
respectively. There was a significant difference in PRAME mRNA levels between 
subtypes of AML patients (P<0.01). AML1-ETO (+) M2 patients expressed the 
highest levels (all P<0.01), followed by acute promyelocytic leukemia patients 
with S type PML-RAR alpha fusion gene. PRAME and AML1-ETO mRNA levels of follow 
up patients displayed similar kinetic patterns, and correlated well in 43 follow 
up samples (r=0.88, P<0.01). PRAME mRNA levels in 3 hematological relapsed 
patients increased above 0.28% 1-4 months ahead relapse, and in other 3 relapsed 
patients the levels never decreased to normal range even in remission.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME mRNA could be used to monitor MRD for AML patients with 
higher than normal levels, and it increases over or persistently higher than 
normal range predicts hematological relapse.

PMID: 19035174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Clin Invest. 2009 Apr;119(4):954-63. doi: 10.1172/JCI34015. Epub 2009 Mar
9.

Upregulation of SOX9 inhibits the growth of human and mouse melanomas and 
restores their sensitivity to retinoic acid.

Passeron T(1), Valencia JC, Namiki T, Vieira WD, Passeron H, Miyamura Y, Hearing 
VJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, 
Maryland 20892, USA.

Treatments for primary and metastatic melanomas are rarely effective. Even 
therapeutics such as retinoic acid (RA) that are successfully used to treat 
several other forms of cancer are ineffective. Recent evidence indicates that 
the antiproliferative effects of RA are mediated by the transcription factor 
SOX9 in human cancer cell lines. As we have previously shown that SOX9 is 
expressed in normal melanocytes, here we investigated SOX9 expression and 
function in human melanomas. Although SOX9 was expressed in normal human skin, 
it was increasingly downregulated as melanocytes progressed to the premalignant 
and then the malignant and metastatic states. Overexpression of SOX9 in both 
human and mouse melanoma cell lines induced cell cycle arrest by increasing p21 
transcription and restored sensitivity to RA by downregulating expression of 
PRAME, a melanoma antigen. Furthermore, SOX9 overexpression in melanoma cell 
lines inhibited tumorigenicity both in mice and in a human ex vivo model of 
melanoma. Treatment of melanoma cell lines with PGD2 increased SOX9 expression 
and restored sensitivity to RA. Thus, combined treatment with PGD2 and RA 
substantially decreased tumor growth in human ex vivo and mouse in vivo models 
of melanoma. The results of our experiments targeting SOX9 provide insight into 
the pathophysiology of melanoma. Further, the effects of SOX9 on melanoma cell 
proliferation and RA sensitivity suggest the encouraging possibility of a 
noncytotoxic approach to the treatment of melanoma.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI34015
PMCID: PMC2662541
PMID: 19273910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2010 Feb;119(3):593-9. doi:
10.1007/s10549-009-0365-6.  Epub 2009 Mar 17.

Derivation of molecular signatures for breast cancer recurrence prediction using 
a two-way validation approach.

Sun Y(1), Urquidi V, Goodison S.

Author information:
(1)Interdisciplinary Center for Biotechnology Research, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32611, USA.

Previous studies have demonstrated the potential value of gene expression 
signatures in assessing the risk of post-surgical breast cancer recurrence, 
however, many of these predictive models have been derived using simple 
computational algorithms and validated internally or using one-way validation on 
a single dataset. We have recently developed a new feature selection algorithm 
that overcomes some limitations inherent to high-dimensional data analysis. In 
this study, we applied this algorithm to two publicly available gene expression 
datasets obtained from over 400 patients with breast cancer to investigate 
whether we could derive more accurate prognostic signatures and reveal common 
predictive factors across independent datasets. We compared the performance of 
three advanced computational algorithms using a robust two-way validation 
method, where one dataset was used for training and to establish a prediction 
model that was then blindly tested on the other dataset. The experiment was then 
repeated in the reverse direction. Analyses identified prognostic signatures 
that while comprised of only 10-13 genes, significantly outperformed previously 
reported signatures for breast cancer evaluation. The cross-validation approach 
revealed CEGP1 and PRAME as major candidates for breast cancer biomarker 
development.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-009-0365-6
PMCID: PMC2844120
PMID: 19291396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Blood. 2009 Jul 2;114(1):148-52. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-11-187724. Epub
2009  Apr 27.

Molecular stratification model for prognosis in cytogenetically normal acute 
myeloid leukemia.

Santamaría CM(1), Chillón MC, García-Sanz R, Pérez C, Caballero MD, Ramos F, de 
Coca AG, Alonso JM, Giraldo P, Bernal T, Queizán JA, Rodriguez JN, 
Fernández-Abellán P, Bárez A, Peñarrubia MJ, Balanzategui A, Vidriales MB, 
Sarasquete ME, Alcoceba M, Díaz-Mediavilla J, San Miguel JF, Gonzalez M.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario, Universidad de Salamanca-Consejo Superior de 
Investigaciones Cientificas, Salamanca, Spain.

We have evaluated 9 new molecular markers (ERG, EVI1, MLL-PTD, MN1, PRAME, 
RHAMM, and WT1 gene-expression levels plus FLT3 and NPM1 mutations) in 121 de 
novo cytogenetically normal acute myeloblastic leukemias. In the multivariate 
analysis, high ERG or EVI1 and low PRAME expressions were associated with a 
shorter relapse-free survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS). A 0 to 3 score 
was given by assigning a value of 0 to favorable parameters (low ERG, low EVI1, 
and high PRAME) and 1 to adverse parameters. This model distinguished 4 subsets 
of patients with different OS (2-year OS of 79%, 65%, 46%, and 27%; P = .001) 
and RFS (2-year RFS of 92%, 65%, 49%, and 43%; P = .005). Furthermore, this 
score identified patients with different OS (P = .001) and RFS (P = .013), even 
within the FLT3/NPM1 intermediate-risk/high-risk subgroups. Here we propose a 
new molecular score for cytogenetically normal acute myeloblastic leukemias, 
which could improve patient risk-stratification.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-11-187724
PMID: 19398719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Lung Cancer. 2010 Feb;67(2):151-9. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2009.04.010. Epub
2009  May 26.

Identification of genes associated with non-small-cell lung cancer promotion and 
progression.

Bankovic J(1), Stojsic J, Jovanovic D, Andjelkovic T, Milinkovic V, Ruzdijic S, 
Tanic N.

Author information:
(1)University of Belgrade, Institute for Biological Research, Department of 
Neurobiology, Bulevar Despota Stefana 142, 11060 Belgrade, Serbia.

Lung cancer is the most common cause of neoplasia-related death worldwide. One 
of the crucial early events in carcinogenesis is the induction of genomic 
instability and mutator phenotype. We investigated genomic instability in 30 
patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) by comparing DNA fingerprints 
of paired tumor and normal tissues using arbitrarily primed polymerase chain 
reaction (AP-PCR). Selected 21 DNA bands with altered mobility were isolated 
from polyacrylamide gels, cloned and sequenced. Obtained sequences were 
submitted to homology search in GenBank database which revealed the following 
genes: TSPAN14, CDH12, RDH10, CYP4Z1, KIR, E2F4, PHACTR3, PHF20, PRAME family 
member and SLC2A13. Following the identification of these genes we examined 
their relation to the clinicopathological parameters and survival of the 
patients. Our study revealed that genetic alterations of TSPAN14, SLC2A13 and 
PHF20 appeared prevalently in tumors of grade 1, stage I suggesting that 
structural changes of these genes could play a role in NSCLC promotion. Contrary 
to this CYP4Z1, KIR and RDH10 were prevalently mutated in tumors of grade 3, 
stage III suggesting that they could play a role in NSCLC progression. E2F4, 
PHACTR3, PRAME family member and CDH12 most probably play important role in 
NSCLC geneses. In conclusion, our study revealed altered genes previously not 
described in regard to this type of cancer.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2009.04.010
PMID: 19473719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Clin Exp Hematop. 2009 May;49(1):1-7. doi: 10.3960/jslrt.49.1.

Oncogene associated cDNA microarray analysis shows PRAME gene expression is a 
marker for response to anthracycline containing chemotherapy in patients with 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.

Kawano R(1), Karube K, Kikuchi M, Takeshita M, Tamura K, Uike N, Eto T, Ohshima 
K, Suzumiya J.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, School of Medicine, Fukuoka 
University.

CHOP (cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, vincristine, and prednisolone) therapy 
achieves a response in more than 60% patients with diffuse large B-cell 
lymphomas (DLBCLs). However, DLBCL shows a heterogeneous response to 
chemotherapy, and some patients are refractory to CHOP therapy. This difference 
in response to therapy is most likely due to differences in biological 
characteristics. We used cDNA microarray analysis to identify genes 
differentially expressed in anthracycline containing chemotherapy-resistant 
DLBCLs (7 patients) compared with anthracycline containing 
chemotherapy-sensitive DLBCLs (6 patients). Nine genes on the cDNA chip showed 
increased expression in anthracycline containing chemotherapy-resistant 
patients. We chose the preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) gene 
because it showed the highest expression in anthracycline containing 
chemotherapy-resistant DLBCLs on the cDNA chip, and it has been linked to 
prognosis of hematological malignancies. We also examined the relationship 
between PRAME gene expression and progression-free survival (PFS) in 45 patients 
with DLBCL. The progression-free survival of PRAME-positive patients (n=12) was 
significantly worse than that of PRAME-negative patients (n=33) (p=0.0373). Our 
results therefore indicate that PRAME expression in DLBCL correlates with 
response to anthracycline containing chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.3960/jslrt.49.1
PMID: 19474511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Cutis. 2009 May;83(5):234-6.

Vesiculopustular eruption associated with transient myeloproliferative disorder.

Nornhold E(1), Li A, Rothman IL, Lakshminrusimha S, Helm TN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University at Buffalo, The State University of New 
York, 1036 Lakeview Terr #B, Grand Island, NY 14072, USA. erikadowns@hotmail.com

Transient myeloproliferative disorder (TMD) is a hematologic abnormality usually 
associated with Down syndrome that may present with a skin eruption in addition 
to typical systemic findings. We report a case of a patient with TMD and a 
vesiculopustular eruption without the phenotypic characteristics of Down 
syndrome who was found to have mosaic trisomy 21. Mutations of the globin 
transcription factor 1 gene, GATA1, are associated with both TMD and acute 
megakaryocytic leukemia. Transient myeloproliferative disorder typically 
presents with pancytopenia, hepatosplenomegaly, and immature circulating white 
blood cells, and affects approximately 10% of neonates with Down syndrome. These 
abnormalities rapidly regress within the first few months of life. However, 20% 
to 30% of neonates with Down syndrome and TMD later develop leukemia. The tumor 
antigen PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma) may serve as a 
marker for leukemic transformation. We report an illustrative case to alert 
clinicians about this uncommon cause of vesiculopustular eruption in a neonate 
without the phenotypic characteristics of Down syndrome and review the clinical 
findings and laboratory studies that aid in accurate diagnosis.

PMID: 19537279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Blood. 2009 Oct 8;114(15):3299-308. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-07-170282. Epub
2009  Jul 22.

The preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) inhibits myeloid 
differentiation in normal hematopoietic and leukemic progenitor cells.

Oehler VG(1), Guthrie KA, Cummings CL, Sabo K, Wood BL, Gooley T, Yang T, Epping 
MT, Shou Y, Pogosova-Agadjanyan E, Ladne P, Stirewalt DL, Abkowitz JL, Radich 
JP.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
WA, USA. voehler@u.washington.edu

The preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is expressed in several 
hematologic malignancies, but either is not expressed or is expressed at only 
low levels in normal hematopoietic cells, making it a target for cancer therapy. 
PRAME is a tumor-associated antigen and has been described as a corepressor of 
retinoic acid signaling in solid tumor cells, but its function in hematopoietic 
cells is unknown. PRAME mRNA expression increased with chronic myeloid leukemia 
(CML) disease progression and its detection in late chronic-phase CML patients 
before tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy was associated with poorer therapeutic 
responses and ABL tyrosine kinase domain point mutations. In leukemia cell 
lines, PRAME protein expression inhibited granulocytic differentiation only in 
cell lines that differentiate along this lineage after all-trans retinoic acid 
(ATRA) exposure. Forced PRAME expression in normal hematopoietic progenitors, 
however, inhibited myeloid differentiation both in the presence and absence of 
ATRA, and this phenotype was reversed when PRAME was silenced in primary CML 
progenitors. These observations suggest that PRAME inhibits myeloid 
differentiation in certain myeloid leukemias, and that its function in these 
cells is lineage and phenotype dependent. Lastly, these observations suggest 
that PRAME is a target for both prognostic and therapeutic applications.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-07-170282
PMCID: PMC2759652
PMID: 19625708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. BMC Cancer. 2009 Sep 23;9:336. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-9-336.

External validation suggests Integrin beta 3 as prognostic biomarker in serous 
ovarian adenocarcinomas.

Partheen K(1), Levan K, Osterberg L, Claesson I, Sundfeldt K, Horvath G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Institute of clinical sciences, University of 
Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden. karolina.partheen@gu.se

BACKGROUND: The majority of women with ovarian cancer are diagnosed in late 
stages, and the mortality rate is high. The use of biomarkers as prognostic 
factors may improve the treatment and clinical outcome of these patients. We 
performed an external validation of the potential biomarkers CLU, ITGB3, CAPG, 
and PRAME to determine if the expression levels are relevant to use as 
prognostic factors.
METHODS: We analysed the gene expression of CLU, ITGB3, CAPG, and PRAME in 30 
advanced staged serous adenocarcinomas with quantitative real-time polymerase 
chain reaction (QPCR) and the protein levels were analysed in 98 serous 
adenocarcinomas with western blot for semiquantitative analysis. Statistical 
differences in mRNA and protein expressions between tumours from survivors and 
tumours from deceased patients were evaluated using the Mann-Whitney U test.
RESULTS: The gene and protein ITGB3 (Integrin beta 3) were significantly more 
expressed in tumours from survivors compared to tumours from deceased patients, 
which is in concordance with our previous results. However, no significant 
differences were detected for the other three genes or proteins CLU, CAPG, and 
PRAME.
CONCLUSION: The loss of ITGB3 expression in tumours from deceased patients and 
high expression in tumours from survivors could be used as a biomarker for 
patients with advanced serous tumours.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-9-336
PMCID: PMC2754489
PMID: 19775429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Nihon Rinsho. 2009 Oct;67(10):1938-43.

[Immunotherapy and cell therapy for myeloid leukemia].

[Article in Japanese]

Yasukawa M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioregulatory Medicine, Ehime University Graduate School of 
Medicine.

To develop effective cellular immunotherapy for hematopoietic malignancies, the 
tumor-associated antigens that are recognized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) 
must be identified. Recently, various leukaemia-associated antigens that are 
recognized by CTL in the context of HLA class I molecules have been identified. 
These include fusion gene products such as BCR-ABL and ETV6-AML1, proteinase 3, 
WT1, human telomerase reverse transcriptase, cyclophilin B, and PRAME. In 
addition, various target antigens associated with other hematopoietic 
malignancies have been also identified. On the basis of these findings, various 
clinical trials of immunotherapy for hematological malignancies, including 
peptide vaccination, dendritic cell therapy, adoptive transfer of CTL, T-cell 
receptor gene therapy have been ongoing. Here, the current status and future 
feasibility of cellular immunotherapy for leukemia are discussed.

PMID: 19860194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Ann Hematol. 2010 May;89(5):453-8. doi: 10.1007/s00277-009-0864-x. Epub 2009
Nov  27.

BAALC is an important predictor of refractoriness to chemotherapy and poor 
survival in intermediate-risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML).

Santamaría C(1), Chillón MC, García-Sanz R, Pérez C, Caballero MD, Mateos MV, 
Ramos F, de Coca AG, Alonso JM, Giraldo P, Bernal T, Queizán JA, Rodríguez JN, 
Puig N, Balanzategui A, Sarasquete ME, Alcoceba M, Díaz-Mediavilla J, San Miguel 
J, González M.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario, Salamanca, Spain. cmsantamaria@usal.es

We have analyzed brain and acute leukemia, cytoplasmic (BAALC) gene expression 
and other genetic markers (ERG, EVI1, MN1, PRAME, WT1, FLT3, and NPM1 mutations) 
in 127 intermediate-risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients: 98 
cytogenetically normal and 29 with intermediate-risk cytogenetic alterations. 
High versus low BAALC expressers showed a higher refractoriness to induction 
treatment (31% vs 10%; p = .005), lower complete remission rate after salvage 
therapy (82% vs 97%; p = .010), and lower 3-year overall (23% vs 58%, p < .001) 
and relapse-free survival (26% vs 52%, p = .006). Similar results were found 
when cytogenetic subgroups were analyzed separately. Multivariate models 
confirmed the unfavorable prognosis of this marker. In conclusion, BAALC is a 
relevant prognostic marker in intermediate-risk AML.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-009-0864-x
PMID: 19943049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Zhonghua Yi Xue Yi Chuan Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Apr;27(2):149-52. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2010.02.007.

[Quantification of the PRAME transcripts in patients with acute myeloid 
leukemia].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu ZH(1), Qian J, Lin J, Yao DM, Qian Z, Wang YL, Chen Q, Han LX, Xiao G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Affiliated People's Hospital of Jiangsu University, 
Zhenjiang, Jiangsu, P.R. China.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the expression level and clinical significance of the 
preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) transcripts in patients 
with acute myeloid leukemia (AML).
METHODS: Real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction with EvaGreen dye was 
established to detect the expression level of PRAME transcripts in the bone 
marrow mononuclear cells of 56 AML cases and 20 controls. The clinical 
association of PRAME transcripts was analyzed.
RESULTS: The PRAME transcripts were 0-1.46% (median 0.18%) and 0-21 618.09% 
(median 9.79%) in controls and AML cases, respectively (P< 0.01). Among the FAB 
subtypes, those with M1, M2, M3 and M4 had significantly higher level of PRAME 
transcripts than controls. However, those with M5 had similar level of PRAME 
transcripts as controls. There was a significantly negative correlation between 
the PRAME transcripts and cytogenetic risk groups (r= -0.438, P= 0.001). Cases 
in low risk had significantly higher level of PRAME transcripts than those in 
intermediate and high risk. Among cases with AML-M2, those with t(8;21) had 
significantly higher level of PRAME transcripts (135.06% -21 618.09%, median 
2201.88%) than those without t(8;21)(0.14% -1696.30%, median 17.97%)(P= 0.002). 
In a patient with sequential samples, PRAME transcripts significantly decreased 
after induction therapy and significantly increased after relapse.
CONCLUSION: The PRAME transcript was highly expressed in AML patients and was a 
favorable marker of prognosis. Quantification of PRAME transcript can be used in 
monitoring disease status of AML.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.1003-9406.2010.02.007
PMID: 20376794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Leuk Res. 2010 Dec;34(12):1647-55. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2010.03.039. Epub
2010  Apr 20.

Expression, epigenetic regulation, and humoral immunogenicity of cancer-testis 
antigens in chronic myeloid leukemia.

Luetkens T(1), Schafhausen P, Uhlich F, Stasche T, Akbulak R, Bartels BM, 
Hildebrandt Y, Gontarewicz A, Kobold S, Meyer S, Gordic M, Bartels K, Lajmi N, 
Cao Y, Kröger N, Bokemeyer C, Brümmendorf TH, Atanackovic D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Hematology, Center of Oncology, Hamburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Cancer-testis (CT) antigens represent attractive targets for tumor 
immunotherapy based on their tumor-restricted expression and immunogenicity. 
However, a broad picture of the expression of CT antigens and associated humoral 
immune responses in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is still missing.
METHODS: We screened CML cell lines and bone marrow (BM) samples from healthy 
donors by RT-PCR for the expression of 31 CT antigens before and after treatment 
with epigenetic agents. Expression of tumor-restricted antigens was further 
examined in 60 CML patients and humoral immune responses against 15 CT antigens 
were screened by ELISA.
RESULTS: In untreated cell lines we detected the expression of 17 CT antigens 
that were absent from normal BM. Expression of most antigens increased following 
demethylating treatment with 5'-Aza-2'-Deoxycytidine. In these samples, only 
PRAME was repeatedly detected and expression correlated with several 
clinicopathological parameters and decreased overall survival. We further show 
that a lower frequency of PRAME-positive samples during imatinib treatment was 
not caused by gene-specific downregulation. Analyzing the patients' antibody 
responses we found that the vast majority of patients lacked spontaneous 
immunity against CT antigens including PRAME.
CONCLUSIONS: CT antigen expression can be increased by the application of 
epigenetic agents and the expression of PRAME correlates with 
clinicopathological parameters and overall survival in patients with CML, but 
does not lead to humoral immune responses. PRAME-specific immunotherapy might 
represent a promising approach for the eradication of residual therapy-resistant 
leukemic cells due to its frequent expression and stability under imatinib 
treatment.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2010.03.039
PMID: 20409582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Int J Cancer. 2011 Jun 1;128(11):2625-34. doi: 10.1002/ijc.25607. Epub 2010
Oct  8.

Pattern and clinical significance of cancer-testis gene expression in head and 
neck squamous cell carcinoma.

Cuffel C(1), Rivals JP, Zaugg Y, Salvi S, Seelentag W, Speiser DE, Liénard D, 
Monnier P, Romero P, Bron L, Rimoldi D.

Author information:
(1)Service of Otorhinolaringology and Head and Neck Surgery, Geneva University 
Hospital, Geneva.

Cancer-testis (CT) antigens comprise families of tumor-associated antigens that 
are immunogenic in patients with various cancers. Their restricted expression 
makes them attractive targets for immunotherapy. The aim of this study was to 
determine the expression of several CT genes and evaluate their prognostic value 
in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). The pattern and level of 
expression of 12 CT genes (MAGE-A1, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, MAGE-A10, MAGE-C2, 
NY-ESO-1, LAGE-1, SSX-2, SSX-4, BAGE, GAGE-1/2, GAGE-3/4) and the 
tumor-associated antigen encoding genes PRAME, HERV-K-MEL, and NA-17A were 
evaluated by RT-PCR in a panel of 57 primary HNSCC. Over 80% of the tumors 
expressed at least 1 CT gene. Coexpression of three or more genes was detected 
in 59% of the patients. MAGE-A4 (60%), MAGE-A3 (51%), PRAME (49%) and HERV-K-MEL 
(42%) were the most frequently expressed genes. Overall, the pattern of 
expression of CT genes indicated a coordinate regulation; however there was no 
correlation between expression of MAGE-A3/A4 and BORIS, a gene whose product has 
been implicated in CT gene activation. The presence of MAGE-A and NY-ESO-1 
proteins was verified by immunohistochemistry. Analysis of the correlation 
between mRNA expression of CT genes with clinico-pathological characteristics 
and clinical outcome revealed that patients with tumors positive for MAGE-A4 or 
multiple CT gene expression had a poorer overall survival. Furthermore, MAGE-A4 
mRNA positivity was prognostic of poor outcome independent of clinical 
parameters. These findings indicate that expression of CT genes is associated 
with a more malignant phenotype and suggest their usefulness as prognostic 
markers in HNSCC.

Copyright © 2010 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.25607
PMID: 20715104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2010 Aug;18(4):855-8.

[Quantification of prame gene transcript in chronic myeloid leukemia].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhu ZH(1), Qian J, Lin J, Qian Z, Yao DM, Wang YL, Chen Q, Xiao GF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Central Laboratory, Affiliated People Hospital, 
Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212002, Jiangsu Province, China.

This study was purposed to analyze the expression level of preferentially 
expressed antigen of melanoma (prame) transcript in the patients with chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML) and explore its clinical significance. Real-time 
quantitative PCR (RQ-PCR) assay was used to detect the level of prame gene 
transcript in the bone marrow samples from 30 patients with CML and 15 patients 
with iron deficiency anemia (IDA). The results showed that CML patients had 
significantly higher prame mRNA level (0% - 772.25%, median 8.28%) than IDA 
cases (0% - 1.46%, median 0.19%) (p < 0.001). The level of prame gene transcript 
was significantly correlated with that of bcr-abl fusion gene transcript (r = 
0.708, p < 0.001) in CML patients. Furthermore, 6 patients in blastic crisis 
(BC) and accelerated phase (AP) had significantly higher prame gene transcript 
than that of 24 cases in chronic phase (CP) (p = 0.007). In 2 CML patients with 
sequential samples, prame gene transcript increased in AP and BC, compared with 
in CP, and was consistent with the altering tendency of bcr-abl transcript. It 
is concluded that the level of prame gene transcript increases in CML which 
associates with the progression of the disease, prame gene transcript level can 
be used for monitoring the disease state.

PMID: 20723287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Cancer Immun. 2010 Aug 23;10:8.

A panel of cancer-testis genes exhibiting broad-spectrum expression in 
haematological malignancies.

Liggins AP(1), Lim SH, Soilleux EJ, Pulford K, Banham AH.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, University of Oxford, 
John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, Oxfordshire, UK.

Cancer-testis (CT) antigens/genes show restricted expression in normal tissues 
but widespread expression in many tumour types. This, coupled with their ability 
to induce cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responses, makes them attractive vaccine 
candidates. Following our identification of PASD1, we have used RT-PCR to 
analyse the mRNA expression profile of a large panel of CT genes in cell lines 
derived from haematological malignancies, and have studied Sp17 protein 
expression in the same cell lines and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) 
biopsies. Our extensive analysis revealed multiple CT transcripts exhibiting 
widespread expression across cell lines derived from 21 B- and 4 T-cell 
malignancies. The broadest mRNA expression profiles were observed for the 
following eight CT genes: Sp17 (25/25), PRAME (25/25), CSAGE (24/25), PASD1 
(22/25), CAGE/DDX53 (19/25), CTAGE1 (19/25), HAGE/DDX43 (16/25) and 
PLU-1/JARID1B (15/25). Cell lines derived from more aggressive lymphoma subtypes 
generally expressed CT transcripts at higher frequency. Sp17 protein was 
detected in a number of cell lines and in six of eleven (54.5%) DLBCL biopsies. 
Analysis of Sp17 protein expression, by immunohistochemistry and Western 
blotting, broadens the scope of this CT antigen as a potentially relevant 
clinical target in haematological malignancies. Further studies of protein 
expression are now needed to validate these antigens as vaccine candidates.

PMCID: PMC2964014
PMID: 20726502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Mol Cancer. 2010 Aug 27;9:226. doi: 10.1186/1476-4598-9-226.

Leucine-rich repeat protein PRAME: expression, potential functions and clinical 
implications for leukaemia.

Wadelin F(1), Fulton J, McEwan PA, Spriggs KA, Emsley J, Heery DM.

Author information:
(1)Gene Regulation Group, Centre for Biomolecular Sciences, School of Pharmacy, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.

PRAME/MAPE/OIP4 is a germinal tissue-specific gene that is also expressed at 
high levels in haematological malignancies and solid tumours. The physiological 
functions of PRAME in normal and tumour cells are unknown, although a role in 
the regulation of retinoic acid signalling has been proposed. Sequence homology 
and structural predictions suggest that PRAME is related to the leucine-rich 
repeat (LRR) family of proteins, which have diverse functions. Here we review 
the current knowledge of the structure/function of PRAME and its relevance in 
leukaemia.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-4598-9-226
PMCID: PMC2936344
PMID: 20799951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Br J Ophthalmol. 2010 Oct;94(10):1322-7. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2009.167445. Epub
2010  Aug 30.

Expression of MCSP and PRAME in conjunctival melanoma.

Westekemper H(1), Karimi S, Süsskind D, Anastassiou G, Freistühler M, Meller D, 
Zeschnigk M, Steuhl KP, Bornfeld N, Schmid KW, Grabellus F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospital of Essen, Hufelandstrasse 
55, Essen, Germany. henrike.westekemper@uk-essen.de

BACKGROUND: To analyse the expression of melanoma chondroitin sulfate 
proteoglycan (MCSP) and the preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) 
in conjunctival melanoma (CoM), lymph node (LN) metastases of cutaneous melanoma 
(CM) and conjunctival nevi (CoN) by immunohistology.
METHODS: Immunohistology was performed in 70 samples of CoM, 25 of LN metastases 
of CM and 12 of CoN, and assessed by an immunoreactive score (0-12 points). 
Statistical analysis was performed to disclose relevant differences in the 
expression pattern. The diagnostic value of the markers was tested by receiver 
operating characteristics (ROC) analysis.
RESULTS: MCSP and PRAME were expressed at significantly higher levels in CoM and 
LN metastases of CM than in CoN (p<0.0001). Within CoM, an MCSP expression <9.0 
points meant higher risk for recurrences (Cox HR=3.1) and a shorter 
recurrence-free survival (p=0.002) than an MCSP expression >9.0 points. ROC 
analysis showed an area under the curve of 91.3% for MCSP (p=0.0002) and 93.8% 
for PRAME (p<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: MCSP and PRAME are differentially expressed in conjunctival 
melanomas and nevi. MCSP might have an impact on the risk for recurrence in 
being inversely correlated to the event. Both markers have high potential to 
discriminate CoM from CoN. The results indicate that immunohistological 
characteristics gain relevance in the assessment of CoM.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2009.167445
PMID: 20805128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Cell Physiol. 2011 Feb;226(2):322-30. doi: 10.1002/jcp.22417.

Retinoids regulate stem cell differentiation.

Gudas LJ(1), Wagner JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Weill Cornell Medical College of Cornell 
University, New York, New York 10065, USA. ljgudas@med.cornell.edu

Retinoids are ubiquitous signaling molecules that influence nearly every cell 
type, exert profound effects on development, and complement cancer 
chemotherapeutic regimens. All-trans retinoic acid (RA) and other active 
retinoids are generated from vitamin A (retinol), but key aspects of the 
signaling pathways required to produce active retinoids remain unclear. 
Retinoids generated by one cell type can affect nearby cells, so retinoids also 
function in intercellular communication. RA induces differentiation primarily by 
binding to RARs, transcription factors that associate with RXRs and bind RAREs 
in the nucleus. Binding of RA: (1) initiates changes in interactions of RAR/RXRs 
with co-repressor and co-activator proteins, activating transcription of primary 
target genes; (2) alters interactions with proteins that induce epigenetic 
changes; (3) induces transcription of genes encoding transcription factors and 
signaling proteins that further modify gene expression (e.g., FOX03A, Hoxa1, 
Sox9, TRAIL, UBE2D3); and (4) results in alterations in estrogen receptor α 
signaling. Proteins that bind at or near RAREs include Sin3a, N-CoR1, PRAME, 
Trim24, NRIP1, Ajuba, Zfp423, and MN1/TEL. Interactions among retinoids, 
RARs/RXRs, and these proteins explain in part the powerful effects of retinoids 
on stem cell differentiation. Studies of this retinol signaling cascade enhance 
our ability to understand and regulate stem cell differentiation for therapeutic 
and scientific purposes. In cancer chemotherapeutic regimens retinoids can 
promote tumor cell differentiation and/or induce proteins that sensitize tumors 
to drug combinations. Mechanistic studies of retinoid signaling continue to 
suggest novel drug targets and will improve therapeutic strategies for cancer 
and other diseases, such as immune-mediated inflammatory diseases.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.22417
PMCID: PMC3315372
PMID: 20836077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Oncogene. 2011 Jan 13;30(2):223-33. doi: 10.1038/onc.2010.409. Epub 2010 Sep
13.

BCR-ABL-mediated upregulation of PRAME is responsible for knocking down TRAIL in 
CML patients.

De Carvalho DD(1), Binato R, Pereira WO, Leroy JM, Colassanti MD, Proto-Siqueira 
R, Bueno-Da-Silva AE, Zago MA, Zanichelli MA, Abdelhay E, Castro FA, Jacysyn JF, 
Amarante-Mendes GP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Imunologia, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Universidade de 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand-TNFSF10 (TRAIL), a 
member of the TNF-α family and a death receptor ligand, was shown to selectively 
kill tumor cells. Not surprisingly, TRAIL is downregulated in a variety of tumor 
cells, including BCR-ABL-positive leukemia. Although we know much about the 
molecular basis of TRAIL-mediated cell killing, the mechanism responsible for 
TRAIL inhibition in tumors remains elusive because (a) TRAIL can be regulated by 
retinoic acid (RA); (b) the tumor antigen preferentially expressed antigen of 
melanoma (PRAME) was shown to inhibit transcription of RA receptor target genes 
through the polycomb protein, enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2); and (c) we 
have found that TRAIL is inversely correlated with BCR-ABL in chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML) patients. Thus, we decided to investigate the association of 
PRAME, EZH2 and TRAIL in BCR-ABL-positive leukemia. Here, we demonstrate that 
PRAME, but not EZH2, is upregulated in BCR-ABL cells and is associated with the 
progression of disease in CML patients. There is a positive correlation between 
PRAME and BCR-ABL and an inverse correlation between PRAME and TRAIL in these 
patients. Importantly, knocking down PRAME or EZH2 by RNA interference in a 
BCR-ABL-positive cell line restores TRAIL expression. Moreover, there is an 
enrichment of EZH2 binding on the promoter region of TRAIL in a CML cell line. 
This binding is lost after PRAME knockdown. Finally, knocking down PRAME or 
EZH2, and consequently induction of TRAIL expression, enhances Imatinib 
sensibility. Taken together, our data reveal a novel regulatory mechanism 
responsible for lowering TRAIL expression and provide the basis of alternative 
targets for combined therapeutic strategies for CML.

DOI: 10.1038/onc.2010.409
PMID: 20838376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Transplant Proc. 2010 Oct;42(8):3293-6. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2010.07.022.

Definition of a target for immunotherapy and results of the first Peptide 
vaccination study in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.

Tabarkiewicz J(1), Giannopoulos K.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Immunology Department, Medical University of Lublin, Lublin, Poland.

Results of bone marrow transplantation, as well as remission phenomena after 
viral infections, suggest that chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) might be 
targeted effectively by T-cell-based immunotherapy. Antigen-targeted 
immunotherapies represent novel treatments for CLL patients. Earlier, we 
screened the mRNA expression of several tumor associated antigens (TAAs), 
observing the presence of RHAMM/CD168, fibromodulin, syntaxin, and NY-Ren60 in 
55%-90% of CLL patients. RHAMM/CD168, fibromodulin, PRAME, and MPP11 were 
expressed in CLL patients but not in healthy volunteers. Quantitative reverse 
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction revealed higher RHAMM expression in 
high-risk CLL patients as well as in advanced stages of the disease. CLL cases 
with higher RHAMM expressions showed significantly shorter median treatment-free 
survivals. Among patients with mutated IgVH genes, an analysis of RHAMM 
expression enabled us to distinguish a subgroup of patients with a favorable 
prognosis. In lymph nodes, RHAMM staining correlated with a higher Ki-67 index 
and CD40L expression. Functionally, stimulation with CD40L enhanced RHAMM 
expression in CLL. Because of the exquisite tissue expression of RHAMM and its 
high expression frequency in CLL patients, we further characterized 
RHAMM-specific CD8+ T cells in these patients. CD8+ T cells primed with the 
RHAMM-derived epitope R3, which is restricted by human leukocyte antigen 
(HLA)A2, lysed RHAMM+ CLL cells. Therefore, we initiated a Phase I clinical 
trial of R3 peptide vaccination. Four patients exhibited reduced white blood 
cell counts during the vaccination process. In 5/6 patients, R3-specific CD8+ T 
cells were detected with the corresponding peptide/HLA-A2 tetrameric complex; 
these populations were verified functionally in 4/5 patients using ELISpot 
assays. In conclusion, RHAMM expression seems to be of prognostic value, and may 
reflect the proliferative capacity of CLL cells; it may therefore represent an 
interesting target for immunotherapy. Peptide vaccination in CLL patients was 
safe eliciting specific CD8+ T-cell responses against the tumor antigen RHAMM.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2010.07.022
PMID: 20970674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Am J Hematol. 2011 Jan;86(1):31-7. doi: 10.1002/ajh.21915.

Characterization of chronic myeloid leukemia stem cells.

Gerber JM(1), Qin L, Kowalski J, Smith BD, Griffin CA, Vala MS, Collector MI, 
Perkins B, Zahurak M, Matsui W, Gocke CD, Sharkis SJ, Levitsky HI, Jones RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine and The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns 
Hopkins, Baltimore, MD, USA. jgerber2@jhmi.edu

Although tyrosine kinase inhibitors have redefined the care of chronic myeloid 
leukemia (CML), these agents have not proved curative, likely due to resistance 
of the leukemia stem cells (LSC). While a number of potential therapeutic 
targets have emerged in CML, their expression in the LSC remains largely 
unknown. We therefore isolated subsets of CD34(+) stem/progenitor cells from 
normal donors and from patients with chronic phase or blast crisis CML. These 
cell subsets were then characterized based on ability to engraft immunodeficient 
mice and expression of candidate therapeutic targets. The CD34(+)CD38(-) CML 
cell population with high aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) activity was the most 
enriched for immunodeficient mouse engrafting capacity. The putative targets: 
PROTEINASE 3, SURVIVIN, and hTERT were expressed only at relatively low levels 
by the CD34(+)CD38(-)ALDH(high) CML cells, similar to the normal 
CD34(+)CD38(-)ALDH(high) cells and less than in the total CML CD34(+) cells. In 
fact, the highest expression of these antigens was in normal, unfractionated 
CD34(+) cells. In contrast, PRAME and WT1 were more highly expressed by all CML 
CD34(+) subsets than their normal counterparts. Thus, ALDH activity appears to 
enrich for CML stem cells, which display an expression profile that is distinct 
from normal stem/progenitor cells and even the CML progenitors. Indeed, 
expression of a putative target by the total CD34(+) population in CML does not 
guarantee expression by the LSC. These expression patterns suggest that 
PROTEINASE 3, SURVIVIN, and hTERT are not optimal therapeutic targets in CML 
stem cells; whereas PRAME and WT1 seem promising.

© 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.21915
PMCID: PMC3010878
PMID: 21132730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Nat Immunol. 2011 Jan;12(1):45-53. doi: 10.1038/ni.1974. Epub 2010 Dec 12.

Antigen processing by nardilysin and thimet oligopeptidase generates cytotoxic T 
cell epitopes.

Kessler JH(1), Khan S, Seifert U, Le Gall S, Chow KM, Paschen A, Bres-Vloemans 
SA, de Ru A, van Montfoort N, Franken KL, Benckhuijsen WE, Brooks JM, van Hall 
T, Ray K, Mulder A, Doxiadis II, van Swieten PF, Overkleeft HS, Prat A, 
Tomkinson B, Neefjes J, Kloetzel PM, Rodgers DW, Hersh LB, Drijfhout JW, van 
Veelen PA, Ossendorp F, Melief CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion, Leiden University 
Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. j.h.kessler@amc.uva.nl

Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) recognize peptides presented by HLA class I 
molecules on the cell surface. The C terminus of these CTL epitopes is 
considered to be produced by the proteasome. Here we demonstrate that the 
cytosolic endopeptidases nardilysin and thimet oligopeptidase (TOP) complemented 
proteasome activity. Nardilysin and TOP were required, either together or alone, 
for the generation of a tumor-specific CTL epitope from PRAME, an immunodominant 
CTL epitope from Epstein-Barr virus protein EBNA3C, and a clinically important 
epitope from the melanoma protein MART-1. TOP functioned as C-terminal trimming 
peptidase in antigen processing, and nardilysin contributed to both the 
C-terminal and N-terminal generation of CTL epitopes. By broadening the 
antigenic peptide repertoire, nardilysin and TOP strengthen the immune defense 
against intracellular pathogens and cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/ni.1974
PMID: 21151101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Anticancer Res. 2010 Dec;30(12):5023-7.

Cancer/Testis antigen expression on mesenchymal stem cells isolated from 
different tissues.

Saldanha-Araujo F(1), Haddad R, Zanette DL, De Araujo AG, Orellana MD, Covas DT, 
Zago MA, Panepucci RA.

Author information:
(1)Fundação Hemocentro de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão 
Preto, São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The expression of cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) on additional 
normal tissues or stem cells may restrict their use as cancer targets. The 
objective of the present study was to evaluate the mRNA levels of some CTAs in a 
variety of tissues.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: mRNA of pericytes, fibroblasts and mesenchymal stem cells 
(MSCs) derived from adult and fetal tissues, human umbilical vein endothelial 
cells, MSC-derived adipocytes, selected normal tissues and control cancer cell 
lines (CLs) were extracted and quantitative polymerase chain reaction was 
performed for MAGED1, PRAME, CTAG1B, MAGEA3 and MAGEA4.
RESULTS: MAGED1 was expressed in all normal tissues and cells evaluated. CTAG1B 
was expressed at levels comparable to control CLs on MSCs derived from arterial, 
fetal skin, adipose tissue and saphenous vein, heart, brain and skin tissues. 
MAGEA4 was detected only in fibroblasts and differentiated adipocytes from MSCs, 
at levels comparable to the control CLs.
CONCLUSION: The potential use of CTAs in immunotherapy should take into account 
the potential off-target effects on MSCs.

PMID: 21187485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Blood. 2011 Mar 24;117(12):3353-62. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-08-300376. Epub
2011  Jan 28.

High-avidity cytotoxic T lymphocytes specific for a new PRAME-derived peptide 
can target leukemic and leukemic-precursor cells.

Quintarelli C(1), Dotti G, Hasan ST, De Angelis B, Hoyos V, Errichiello S, Mims 
M, Luciano L, Shafer J, Leen AM, Heslop HE, Rooney CM, Pane F, Brenner MK, 
Savoldo B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX 
77030, USA.

The cancer testis antigen (CTA) preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma 
(PRAME) is overexpressed by many hematologic malignancies, but is absent on 
normal tissues, including hematopoietic progenitor cells, and may therefore be 
an appropriate candidate for T cell-mediated immunotherapy. Because it is likely 
that an effective antitumor response will require high-avidity, PRAME-specific 
cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs), we attempted to generate such CTLs using 
professional and artificial antigen-presenting cells loaded with a peptide 
library spanning the entire PRAME protein and consisting of 125 synthetic 
pentadecapeptides overlapping by 11 amino acids. We successfully generated 
polyclonal, PRAME-specific CTL lines and elicited high-avidity CTLs, with a high 
proportion of cells recognizing a previously uninvestigated HLA-A*02-restricted 
epitope, P435-9mer (NLTHVLYPV). These PRAME-CTLs could be generated both from 
normal donors and from subjects with PRAME(+) hematologic malignancies. The 
cytotoxic activity of our PRAME-specific CTLs was directed not only against 
leukemic blasts, but also against leukemic progenitor cells as assessed by 
colony-forming-inhibition assays, which have been implicated in leukemia 
relapse. These PRAME-directed CTLs did not affect normal hematopoietic 
progenitors, indicating that this approach may be of value for immunotherapy of 
PRAME(+) hematologic malignancies.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2010-08-300376
PMCID: PMC3069675
PMID: 21278353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. PLoS One. 2011 Feb 10;6(2):e16867. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0016867.

The expansion of the PRAME gene family in Eutheria.

Chang TC(1), Yang Y, Yasue H, Bharti AK, Retzel EF, Liu WS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dairy and Animal Science, The Center for Reproductive Biology 
and Health, College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, Pennsylvania, United States of America.

The PRAME gene family belongs to the group of cancer/testis genes whose 
expression is restricted primarily to the testis and a variety of cancers. The 
expansion of this gene family as a result of gene duplication has been observed 
in primates and rodents. We analyzed the PRAME gene family in Eutheria and 
discovered a novel Y-linked PRAME gene family in bovine, PRAMEY, which underwent 
amplification after a lineage-specific, autosome-to-Y transposition. 
Phylogenetic analyses revealed two major evolutionary clades. Clade I containing 
the amplified PRAMEYs and the unamplified autosomal homologs in cattle and other 
eutherians is under stronger functional constraints; whereas, Clade II 
containing the amplified autosomal PRAMEs is under positive selection. 
Deep-sequencing analysis indicated that eight of the identified 16 PRAMEY loci 
are active transcriptionally. Compared to the bovine autosomal PRAME that is 
expressed predominantly in testis, the PRAMEY gene family is expressed 
exclusively in testis and is up-regulated during testicular maturation. 
Furthermore, the sense RNA of PRAMEY is expressed specifically whereas the 
antisense RNA is expressed predominantly in spermatids. This study revealed that 
the expansion of the PRAME family occurred in both autosomes and sex chromosomes 
in a lineage-dependent manner. Differential selection forces have shaped the 
evolution and function of the PRAME family. The positive selection observed on 
the autosomal PRAMEs (Clade II) may result in their functional diversification 
in immunity and reproduction. Conversely, selective constraints have operated on 
the expanded PRAMEYs to preserve their essential function in spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0016867
PMCID: PMC3037382
PMID: 21347312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


126. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2011 Feb;69(1):1-2. doi:
10.1590/s0004-282x2011000100001.

What neurodegeneration, brain malformation and cancer might have in common? An 
abnormal gene expression!

Kok F.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-282x2011000100001
PMID: 21359413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2011 Feb;69(1):9-12. doi:
10.1590/s0004-282x2011000100003.

PRAME gene expression profile in medulloblastoma.

Vulcani-Freitas TM(1), Saba-Silva N, Cappellano A, Cavalheiro S, Toledo SR.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Oncology Institute, GRAACC, Federal University of São Paulo, SP, 
Brazil.

Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant tumors of central nervous system in 
the childhood. The treatment is severe, harmful and, thus, has a dismal 
prognosis. As PRAME is present in various cancers, including meduloblastoma, and 
has limited expression in normal tissues, this antigen can be an ideal vaccine 
target for tumor immunotherapy. In order to find a potential molecular target, 
we investigated PRAME expression in medulloblastoma fragments and we compare the 
results with the clinical features of each patient. Analysis of gene expression 
was performed by real-time quantitative PCR from 37 tumor samples. The 
Mann-Whitney test was used to analysis the relationship between gene expression 
and clinical characteristics. Kaplan-Meier curves were used to evaluate 
survival. PRAME was overexpressed in 84% samples. But no statistical association 
was found between clinical features and PRAME overexpression. Despite that PRAME 
gene could be a strong candidate for immunotherapy since it is highly expressed 
in medulloblastomas.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-282x2011000100003
PMID: 21359415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Blood. 2011 Apr 28;117(17):4561-8. doi: 10.1182/blood-2010-08-303479. Epub
2011  Mar 3.

Integrative prognostic risk score in acute myeloid leukemia with normal 
karyotype.

Damm F(1), Heuser M, Morgan M, Wagner K, Görlich K, Grosshennig A, Hamwi I, Thol 
F, Surdziel E, Fiedler W, Lübbert M, Kanz L, Reuter C, Heil G, Delwel R, 
Löwenberg B, Valk PJ, Krauter J, Ganser A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hemostasis, Oncology, and Stem Cell 
Transplantation, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany. 
damm.frederik@mh-hannover.de

To integrate available clinical and molecular information for cytogenetically 
normal acute myeloid leukemia (CN-AML) patients into one risk score, 275 CN-AML 
patients from multicenter treatment trials AML SHG Hannover 0199 and 0295 and 
131 patients from HOVON/SAKK protocols as external controls were evaluated for 
mutations/polymorphisms in NPM1, FLT3, CEBPA, MLL, NRAS, IDH1/2, and WT1. 
Transcript levels were quantified for BAALC, ERG, EVI1, ID1, MN1, PRAME, and 
WT1. Integrative prognostic risk score (IPRS) was modeled in 181 patients based 
on age, white blood cell count, mutation status of NPM1, FLT3-ITD, CEBPA, single 
nucleotide polymorphism rs16754, and expression levels of BAALC, ERG, MN1, and 
WT1 to represent low, intermediate, and high risk of death. Complete remission 
(P = .005), relapse-free survival (RFS, P < .001), and overall survival (OS, P < 
.001) were significantly different for the 3 risk groups. In 2 independent 
validation cohorts of 94 and 131 patients, the IPRS predicted different OS (P < 
.001) and RFS (P < .001). High-risk patients with related donors had longer OS 
(P = .016) and RFS (P = .026) compared with patients without related donors. In 
contrast, intermediate-risk group patients with related donors had shorter OS (P 
= .003) and RFS (P = .05). Donor availability had no impact on outcome of 
patients in the low-risk group. Thus, the IPRS may improve consolidation 
treatment stratification in CN-AML patients. Study registered at 
www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00209833.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2010-08-303479
PMID: 21372155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Br J Haematol. 2011 Jul;154(1):153-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2011.08585.x.
 Epub 2011 Apr 22.

Hypomethylation of PRAME promoter is associated with poor prognosis in 
myelodysplastic syndrome.

Qian J, Zhu ZH, Lin J, Ming Yao DM, Li Y, Yang J, Wang CZ.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2011.08585.x
PMID: 21517806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Apr;19(2):477-9.

[Evaluating the feasibility of nucleated cells isolated by lysis method for 
real-time quantitative RT-PCR].

[Article in Chinese]

Li LD(1), Qin YZ, Li JL, Liu YR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology, Peking University People Hospital, Beijing 100044, 
China.

This study was aimed to investigate whether difference exists between real time 
RT-PCR results of nucleated cells isolated by lysis method and mononuclear cells 
isolated by gradient concentration method. 14 bone marrow samples from leukemia 
patients (7 samples of AML-M(2), 1 of AML-M(4), 1 of AML-M(4)EO, 1 of AML-M(6), 
1 of APL and 3 of CML) were collected. Each sample was divided into 2 parts, and 
was used to isolate mononuclear cells by Ficoll-Hypaque gradient centrifugation, 
and other was used to isolate nuclear cells by lysis method. The RNA extraction 
and detection of internal reference gene ABL for all of samples were performed 
by RT-PCR, and mRNA expression levels in 3 samples of BCR/ABL, 6 of AML/ETO, 1 
of CBFβ-MHY11, 1 of WT1 and 6 PRAME were detected by RT-PCR. The results showed 
that ABL copies of all samples were over 3 × 10(4), and there was significant 
difference in ABL copies between each pair of samples by lysis and gradient 
centrifugation method (p > 0.05). There was also no significant difference in 
every detected mRNA levels between 14 pair samples (p > 0.05). It is concluded 
that the lysis method may be useful one for extracting RNA from nuclear cells, 
and can adopt as a routing detection method for simultaneously extracting RNA 
from many samples to detect leukemia specific mRNA by using RT-PCR.

PMID: 21518512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Leuk Res. 2011 Sep;35(9):1219-25. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2011.04.005. Epub
2011  May 7.

Inhibition of PRAME expression causes cell cycle arrest and apoptosis in 
leukemic cells.

Tanaka N(1), Wang YH, Shiseki M, Takanashi M, Motoji T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.

Comment in
    Leuk Res. 2011 Sep;35(9):1159-60.

The preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is known as a 
tumor-associated antigen, but its function in leukemia remains unclear. We 
investigated the function with small interfering RNA (siRNA)-induced knockdown 
of PRAME in a K562 cell line. After PRAME siRNA transfection, proliferation was 
suppressed and cell cycle analysis showed G(0)/G(1) arrest, followed by 
apoptosis. PRAME siRNA-treated cells also showed changes in the genes affecting 
erythroid differentiation. We examined the PRAME expression levels and the S 
phase population of 32 acute leukemia patients at the time of diagnosis and 
relapse. An increase of the S phase population was accompanied by an increase of 
PRAME expression at relapse. Our results suggest that PRAME plays an important 
role in disease progression in acute leukemia.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2011.04.005
PMID: 21550659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2011 Sep;60(9):1243-55. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-011-1024-4. Epub 2011 May 7.

Increased PRAME antigen-specific killing of malignant cell lines by low avidity 
CTL clones, following treatment with 5-Aza-2'-Deoxycytidine.

Yan M(1), Himoudi N, Basu BP, Wallace R, Poon E, Adams S, Hasan F, Xue SA, 
Wilson N, Dalgleish A, Williams O, Anderson J.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Molecular Haematology and Cancer Biology, University College London 
Institute of Child Health, 30 Guilford Street, London WC1N 1EH, UK.

The cancer testis antigen Preferentially Expressed Antigen of Melanoma (PRAME) 
is overexpressed in many solid tumours and haematological malignancies whilst 
showing minimal expression in normal tissues and is therefore a promising target 
for immunotherapy. HLA-A0201-restricted peptide epitopes from PRAME have 
previously been identified as potential immunogens to drive antigen-specific 
autologous CTL responses, capable of lysing PRAME expressing tumour cells. CTL 
lines, from 13 normal donors and 10 melanoma patients, all of whom were 
HLA-A0201 positive, were generated against the PRAME peptide epitope 
PRA(100-108). Specific killing activity against PRA(100-108) peptide-pulsed 
targets was weak compared with CTL lines directed against known immunodominant 
peptides. Moreover, limiting dilution cloning from selected PRAME-specific CTL 
lines resulted in the generation of a clone of only low to intermediate avidity. 
Addition of the demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-Deoxycytidine (DAC) increased PRAME 
expression in 7 out of 11 malignant cell lines including several B lineage 
leukaemia lines and also increased class I expression. Pre-treatment of target 
cells was associated with increased sensitivity to antigen-specific killing by 
the low avidity CTL. When CTL, as well as of the target cells, were treated, the 
antigen-specific killing was further augmented. Interestingly, one 
HLA-A0201-negative DAC-treated line (RAJI) showed increased sensitivity to 
killing by clones despite a failure of expression of PRAME or HLA-A0201. 
Together these data point to a general increased augmentation of cancer 
immunogenocity by DAC involving both antigen-specific and non-specific 
mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-011-1024-4
PMID: 21553146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Leuk Res. 2011 Sep;35(9):1159-60. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2011.04.018. Epub
2011  May 17.

PRAME: from diagnostic marker and tumor antigen to promising target of RNAi 
therapy in leukemic cells.

Yin B.

Comment on
    Leuk Res. 2011 Sep;35(9):1219-25.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2011.04.018
PMID: 21592570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Immunotherapy. 2011 Jun;3(6):697-9. doi: 10.2217/imt.11.50.

Leukemia-associated antigens are immunogenic and have prognostic value in acute 
myeloid leukemia.

Zhang L, Greiner J.

DOI: 10.2217/imt.11.50
PMID: 21668302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Int J Oncol. 2011 Sep;39(3):665-72. doi: 10.3892/ijo.2011.1084. Epub 2011
Jun  16.

Downregulation of microRNA-211 is involved in expression of preferentially 
expressed antigen of melanoma in melanoma cells.

Sakurai E(1), Maesawa C, Shibazaki M, Yasuhira S, Oikawa H, Sato M, Tsunoda K, 
Ishikawa Y, Watanabe A, Takahashi K, Akasaka T, Masuda T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Biology, Division of Bioscience, Center for Advanced 
Medical Science, School of Medicine, Iwate Medical University, Morioka 020-8505, 
Japan.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs whose aberrations are involved in 
the initiation and progression of human cancers. To seek unique miRNAs 
contributing to melanoma tumorigenesis, we investigated the global miRNA 
expression profile of 7 melanoma cell lines and 3 primary cultures of neonatal 
human epidermal melanocytes (NHEMs) using the stem-loop real-time PCR method. We 
found 7 miRNAs that were commonly downregulated and 18 that were upregulated in 
all of the melanoma cell lines in comparison with the 3 primary cultures of 
NHEMs. We focused on one commonly downregulated miRNA (miR-211), and analyzed 
its relationship to the expression of preferentially expressed antigen of 
melanoma (PRAME) protein, which is a potential target of miR-211. We found that 
all melanoma cell lines exhibited marked down--regulation of miR-211 and 
upregulation of PRAME mRNA/protein expression in comparison with NHEMs (P<0.05). 
A significant inverse correlation between miR-211 and PRAME protein expression 
was found in melanoma cell lines and primary cultures of NHEMs (correlation 
coefficient of -0.733, P<0.05). We demonstrated that overexpression of miR-211 
induced a reduction of PRAME protein levels, and confirmed the target 
specificity between miR-211 and PRAME by luciferase reporter assay. These 
results suggest that downregulation of miR-211 may be partly involved in 
aberrant expression of the PRAME protein in melanoma cells.

DOI: 10.3892/ijo.2011.1084
PMID: 21687938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Orthop Sci. 2011 Jul;16(4):458-66. doi: 10.1007/s00776-011-0106-7. Epub
2011  Jun 21.

Insights on PRAME and osteosarcoma by means of gene expression profiling.

Toledo SR(1), Zago MA, Oliveira ID, Proto-Siqueira R, Okamoto OK, Severino P, 
Vêncio RZ, Gamba FT, Silva WA, Moreira-Filho CA, Torre CA, Alves MT, 
Garcia-Filho RJ, Simpson AJ, Petrilli AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Pediatric Oncology Institute-GRAACC (Grupo de Apoio 
ao Adolescente e à Criança com Câncer)/UNIFESP (Federal University of São 
Paulo), Rua Botucatu no. 743, Floor 8, Genetics Laboratory, Vila Clementino, São 
Paulo, SP, 04023-062, Brazil. silviatoledo@graacc.org.br

BACKGROUND: Osteosarcoma (OS) is the most frequent bone tumor in children and 
adolescents. Tumor antigens are encoded by genes that are expressed in many 
types of solid tumors but are silent in normal tissues, with the exception of 
placenta and male germ-line cells. It has been proposed that antigen tumors are 
potential tumor markers.
OBJECTIVES: The premise of this study is that the identification of novel 
OS-associated transcripts will lead to a better understanding of the events 
involved in OS pathogenesis and biology.
METHODS: We analyzed the expression of a panel of seven tumor antigens in OS 
samples to identify possible tumor markers. After selecting the tumor antigen 
expressed in most samples of the panel, gene expression profiling was used to 
identify osteosarcoma-associated molecular alterations. A microarray was 
employed because of its ability to accurately produce comprehensive expression 
profiles.
RESULTS: PRAME was identified as the tumor antigen expressed in most OS samples; 
it was detected in 68% of the cases. Microarray results showed differences in 
expression for genes functioning in cell signaling and adhesion as well as 
extracellular matrix-related genes, implying that such tumors could indeed 
differ in regard to distinct patterns of tumorigenesis.
CONCLUSIONS: The hypothesis inferred in this study was gathered mostly from 
available data concerning other kinds of tumors. There is circumstantial 
evidence that PRAME expression might be related to distinct patterns of 
tumorigenesis. Further investigation is needed to validate the differential 
expression of genes belonging to tumorigenesis-related pathways in 
PRAME-positive and PRAME-negative tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00776-011-0106-7
PMID: 21691740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Immunother. 2011 Sep;34(7):556-67. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e3182280db1.

A phase 1 study of a vaccine targeting preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma and prostate-specific membrane antigen in patients with advanced solid 
tumors.

Weber JS(1), Vogelzang NJ, Ernstoff MS, Goodman OB, Cranmer LD, Marshall JL, 
Miles S, Rosario D, Diamond DC, Qiu Z, Obrocea M, Bot A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cutaneous Oncology, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL 33612. 
jeffrey.weber@moffitt.org

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) and prostate-specific 
membrane antigen (PSMA) are tumor-associated antigens implicated in cellular 
differentiation, genetic stability, and angiogenesis. MKC1106-PP is an 
immunotherapeutic regimen cotargeting PRAME and PSMA, comprised of a recombinant 
plasmid (pPRA-PSM encoding fragments derived from both antigens) and 2 peptides 
(E-PRA and E-PSM derived from PRAME and PSMA, respectively). This multicenter 
study evaluated MKC1106-PP with a fixed plasmid dose and 2 different peptide 
doses, administered by intralymph node injection in a prime-boost sequence in 
human leukocyte antigen-A*0201 and tumor-antigen-positive patients with 
progressing metastatic solid tumors who had failed standard therapy. Immune 
monitoring was done by tetramer and enzymatic-linked immune spot analysis. The 
treatment was well tolerated, with no significant differences in safety, immune 
response, and clinical outcome relative to peptide doses. Fifteen of 24 
evaluable patients showed an immune response, as defined by the expansion of 
PRAME-specific or PSMA-specific T cells in the blood. There were no partial or 
complete responses by the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors. Seven 
patients showed stable disease (SD) for 6 months or longer, or prostate specific 
antigen decline: 4 of 10 with prostate carcinoma, 2 of 2 with renal clear cell 
carcinoma, and 1 of 10 with metastatic melanoma. In addition, there was an 
association between the induction and persistence of antigen-specific T cells in 
blood above baseline levels and disease control, defined as SD for 6 months or 
longer. These results support further development of MKC1106-PP in specific 
clinical indications.

DOI: 10.1097/CJI.0b013e3182280db1
PMCID: PMC3709852
PMID: 21760528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All remaining authors have declared that there 
are no conflicts of interest in regards of this study.


138. Clin Cancer Res. 2011 Sep 1;17(17):5615-25. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-1066.  Epub 2011 Jul 19.

PRAME-specific Allo-HLA-restricted T cells with potent antitumor reactivity 
useful for therapeutic T-cell receptor gene transfer.

Amir AL(1), van der Steen DM, van Loenen MM, Hagedoorn RS, de Boer R, Kester MD, 
de Ru AH, Lugthart GJ, van Kooten C, Hiemstra PS, Jedema I, Griffioen M, van 
Veelen PA, Falkenburg JH, Heemskerk MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: In human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched stem cell transplantation 
(SCT), it has been shown that beneficial immune response mediating 
graft-versus-tumor (GVT) responses can be separated from graft-versus-host 
disease (GVHD) immune responses. In this study, we investigated whether it would 
be possible to dissect the beneficial immune response of allo-HLA-reactive T 
cells with potent antitumor reactivity from GVHD-inducing T cells present in the 
detrimental immune response after HLA-mismatched SCT.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The presence of specific tumor-reactive T cells in the 
allo-HLA repertoire was analyzed at the time of severe GVHD after HLA-mismatched 
SCT, using tetramers composed of different tumor-associated antigens (TAA).
RESULTS: High-avidity allo-HLA-restricted T cells specific for the TAA 
preferentially expressed antigen on melanomas (PRAME) were identified that 
exerted highly single-peptide-specific reactivity. The T cells recognized 
multiple different tumor cell lines and leukemic cells, whereas no reactivity 
against a large panel of nonmalignant cells was observed. These T cells, 
however, also exerted low reactivity against mature dendritic cells (DC) and 
kidney epithelial cells, which was shown to be because of low PRAME expression.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of potential beneficial specificity and high 
reactivity, the T-cell receptors of these PRAME-specific T cells may be 
effective tools for adoptive T-cell therapy. Clinical studies have to determine 
the significance of the reactivity observed against mature DCs and kidney 
epithelial cells.

©2011 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-1066
PMID: 21771875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. EMBO J. 2011 Aug 5;30(18):3786-98. doi: 10.1038/emboj.2011.262.

The tumour antigen PRAME is a subunit of a Cul2 ubiquitin ligase and associates 
with active NFY promoters.

Costessi A(1), Mahrour N, Tijchon E, Stunnenberg R, Stoel MA, Jansen PW, Sela D, 
Martin-Brown S, Washburn MP, Florens L, Conaway JW, Conaway RC, Stunnenberg HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Nijmegen Centre for Molecular Life Sciences, 
Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

The human tumour antigen PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) is 
frequently overexpressed in tumours. High PRAME levels correlate with poor 
clinical outcome of several cancers, but the mechanisms by which PRAME could be 
involved in tumourigenesis remain largely elusive. We applied protein-complex 
purification strategies and identified PRAME as a substrate recognition subunit 
of a Cullin2-based E3 ubiquitin ligase. PRAME can be recruited to DNA in vitro, 
and genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that PRAME is 
specifically enriched at transcriptionally active promoters that are also bound 
by NFY and at enhancers. Our results are consistent with a role for the PRAME 
ubiquitin ligase complex in NFY-mediated transcriptional regulation.

DOI: 10.1038/emboj.2011.262
PMCID: PMC3173790
PMID: 21822215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


140. Am J Hematol. 2011 Nov;86(11):918-22. doi: 10.1002/ajh.22141. Epub 2011 Sep
2.

Cancer-testis antigen expression and its epigenetic modulation in acute myeloid 
leukemia.

Atanackovic D(1), Luetkens T, Kloth B, Fuchs G, Cao Y, Hildebrandt Y, Meyer S, 
Bartels K, Reinhard H, Lajmi N, Hegewisch-Becker S, Schilling G, Platzbecker U, 
Kobbe G, Schroeder T, Bokemeyer C, Kröger N.

Author information:
(1)Center of Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine II, 
Oncology/Hematology/Stem Cell Transplantation, University Cancer Center Hamburg, 
Germany. D.Atanackovic@uke.uni-hamburg.de

Cancer-testis antigens (CTA) represent attractive targets for tumor 
immunotherapy. However, a broad picture of CTA expression in acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML) is missing. CTA expression was analyzed in normal bone marrow 
(BM) as well as in AML cell lines before and after treatment with demethylating 
agents and/or histone acetylase inhibitors. Presence of selected CTA with a 
strictly tumor-restricted expression was then determined in samples of patients 
with AML before and after demethylating therapy. Screening AML cell lines for 
the expression of 20 CTA, we identified six genes (MAGE-A3, PRAME, ROPN1, SCP-1, 
SLLP1, and SPO11) with an AML-restricted expression. Analyzing the expression of 
these CTA in blast-containing samples from AML patients (N = 64), we found all 
samples to be negative for MAGE-A3 and SPO11 while a minority of patients 
expressed ROPN1 (1.6%), SCP-1 (3.1%), or SLLP1 (9.4%). The only CTA expressed in 
substantial proportion of patients (53.1%) was PRAME. Following demethylating 
treatment with 5'-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, we observed an increased or de novo 
expression of CTA, in particular of SSX-2, in AML cell lines. In AML patients, 
we detected increased expression of PRAME and induction of SSX-2 after 
demethylating therapy with 5-azacytidine. With the exception of PRAME, CTA are 
mostly absent from AML blasts. However, demethylating treatment induces strong 
expression of CTA, particularly of SSX-2, in vitro and in vivo. Therefore, we 
propose that CTA-specific immunotherapy for AML should preferentially target 
PRAME and/or should be combined with the application of demethylating agents 
opening the perspective for alternative targets like CTA SSX-2.

Copyright © 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.22141
PMID: 21898529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Mol Ther. 2011 Dec;19(12):2258-68. doi: 10.1038/mt.2011.167. Epub 2011 Sep
13.

Cytotoxic T lymphocytes simultaneously targeting multiple tumor-associated 
antigens to treat EBV negative lymphoma.

Gerdemann U(1), Katari U, Christin AS, Cruz CR, Tripic T, Rousseau A, Gottschalk 
SM, Savoldo B, Vera JF, Heslop HE, Brenner MK, Bollard CM, Rooney CM, Leen AM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, The Methodist 
Hospital, Texas Children's Hospital, Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Although immunotherapy with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-specific cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes (CTLs) can treat EBV-associated Hodgkin and non-Hodgkin lymphoma 
(HL/NHL), more than 50% of such tumors are EBV negative. We now describe an 
approach that allows us to consistently generate, in a single line, CTLs that 
recognize a wide spectrum of nonviral tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) expressed 
by human HL/NHL, including Survivin, MAGE-A4, Synovial sarcoma X (SSX2), 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) and NY-ESO-1. We could 
generate these CTLs from nine of nine healthy donors and five of eight lymphoma 
patients, irrespective of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) type. We reactivated 
TAA-directed T cells ex vivo, by stimulation with dendritic cells (DCs) pulsed 
with overlapping peptide libraries spanning the chosen antigens in the presence 
of an optimized Th1-polarizing, prosurvival/proliferative and Treg inhibitory 
cytokine combination. The resultant lines of CD4(+) and CD8(+), 
polycytokine-producing T cells are directed against a multiplicity of epitopes 
expressed on the selected TAAs, with cytolytic activity against autologous tumor 
cells. Infusion of such multispecific monocultures may extend the benefits of 
CTL therapy to treatment even of EBV negative HL and NHL.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2011.167
PMCID: PMC3242656
PMID: 21915103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2012 Mar;61(3):385-96. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-011-1111-6. Epub 2011 Sep 18.

Activated human γδ T cells induce peptide-specific CD8+ T-cell responses to 
tumor-associated self-antigens.

Altvater B(1), Pscherer S, Landmeier S, Kailayangiri S, Savoldo B, Juergens H, 
Rossig C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Children's 
Hospital Muenster, Albert-Schweitzer-Campus 1, 48149, Muenster, Germany.

Specific cellular immunotherapy of cancer requires efficient generation and 
expansion of cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) that recognize tumor-associated 
self-antigens. Here, we investigated the capacity of human γδ T cells to induce 
expansion of CD8+ T cells specific for peptides derived from the weakly 
immunogenic tumor-associated self-antigens PRAME and STEAP1. Coincubation of 
aminobisphosphonate-stimulated human peripheral blood-derived γδ T cells 
(Vγ9+Vδ2+), loaded with HLA-A*02-restricted epitopes of PRAME, with autologous 
peripheral blood CD8+ T cells stimulated the expansion of peptide-specific 
cytolytic effector memory T cells. Moreover, peptide-loaded γδ T cells 
efficiently primed antigen-naive CD45RA+ CD8+ T cells against PRAME peptides. 
Direct comparisons with mature DCs revealed equal potency of γδ T cells and DCs 
in inducing primary T-cell responses and peptide-specific T-cell activation and 
expansion. Antigen presentation by γδ T-APCs was not able to overcome the 
limited capacity of peptide-specific T cells to interact with targets expressing 
full-length antigen. Importantly, T cells with regulatory phenotype (CD4+ 
CD25hiFoxP3+) were lower in cocultures with γδ T cells compared to DCs. In 
summary, bisphosphonate-activated γδ T cells permit generation of CTLs specific 
for weakly immunogenic tumor-associated epitopes. Exploiting this strategy for 
effective immunotherapy of cancer requires strategies that enhance the avidity 
of CTL responses to allow for efficient targeting of cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-011-1111-6
PMID: 21928126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Cancer. 2012 Apr 1;118(7):1845-55. doi: 10.1002/cncr.26486. Epub 2011 Aug
26.

Cancer-testis antigens expressed in osteosarcoma identified by gene microarray 
correlate with a poor patient prognosis.

Zou C(1), Shen J, Tang Q, Yang Z, Yin J, Li Z, Xie X, Huang G, Lev D, Wang J.

Author information:
(1)Musculoskeletal Oncology Department, First Affiliated Hospital of Zhongshan 
University, Guangdong, China.

BACKGROUND: From 30% to 40% patients with osteosarcoma eventually experience 
medical failure; and few biomarkers of prognostic significance have been 
established. High-throughput methods like gene microarray analysis can help to 
identify molecular biomarkers that are useful for diagnosing osteosarcoma and 
targeting its treatment.
METHODS: Oligonucleotide microarrays were used to compare expression profiles of 
osteosarcoma cell lines and osteoblasts. Differentially expressed genes were 
confirmed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis. Corresponding 
proteins were evaluated by flow cytometry and Western blot analysis in 
osteosarcoma cell lines and by immunohistochemistry in osteosarcoma tissues. The 
association between staining intensity and clinical outcome was analyzed 
further.
RESULTS: Cancer-testis antigens, including melanoma antigen family A (MAGEA), 
chondrosarcoma-associated gene family, member 2 (CSAG2), and preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), were increased significantly in all 
osteosarcoma cell lines that were analyzed. Real-time PCR examinations indicated 
that cancer-testis antigen expression was frequent and coordinated in patients 
with osteosarcoma. The expression of MAGEA was confirmed by Western blot and 
flow cytometry analyses in osteosarcoma cell lines. Furthermore, 
immunohistochemical staining analysis suggested that MAGEA expression may be 
used to predict distant metastasis and poor survival. The adjusted relative risk 
for lung metastasis was 2.79 (95% confidence interval, 1.12-6.93; P = .028) for 
MAGEA-positive patients. Five-year survival rates for patients with and without 
MAGEA expression were 39.6% ± 8.4% and 80% ± 8.9%, respectively (log-rank test; 
P = .01).
CONCLUSIONS: The combined use of an oligonucleotide microarray, a clinical 
database, and a tissue bank was useful for identifying molecular tumor markers. 
The frequent expression of MAGEA and other cancer-testis antigens in 
osteosarcoma indicates that they may be useful as diagnostic markers and targets 
of immunotherapy that warrant further investigation.

Copyright © 2011 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.26486
PMID: 22009167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2011 Dec;19(6):1512-7.

[Advancement of peptide vaccines for hematologic malignancies].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhou WJ(1), He YJ, Li YH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong 
Province, China.

Despite recent significant advances in the treatment of hematological 
malignancies, relapse of this disease is of great note with the existence of the 
minimal residual disease (MRD). Tumour peptide vaccine seems to be one of the 
effective immunotherapies for eliminating tumor cells of MRD. This review 
focuses on the late results of clinical trails of peptide vaccination protocols 
targeting WT1, RHAMM, BCR-ABL, PR1 in hematological malignancies and the 
development of specific immune responses to PRAME and Survivin peptides. An 
outlook to heteroclitic peptides, new adjuvants, combined peptide vaccines and 
Ad-tWT1 vaccine is also given to further explore the possibility to enhance the 
efficacy of the peptide vaccine.

PMID: 22169315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Am J Clin Pathol. 2012 Feb;137(2):240-7. doi: 10.1309/AJCPGA95KVSAUDMF.

PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) is a novel marker for 
differentiating serous carcinoma from malignant mesothelioma.

Brenne K(1), Nymoen DA, Reich R, Davidson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Oslo University Hospital, Norwegian Radium Hospital, 
Montebello, Oslo, Norway.

The PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) gene was previously 
shown to be overexpressed in ovarian/primary peritoneal serous carcinoma 
compared with malignant mesothelioma using gene expression arrays. The objective 
of this study was to validate this finding at the messenger RNA (mRNA) and 
protein levels. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis of 126 
müllerian carcinomas and 23 malignant mesotheliomas showed significantly higher 
PRAME mRNA expression in the former tumor (P < .001; test sensitivity and 
specificity, 89% and 91%, respectively). PRAME protein was expressed in 41 of 50 
müllerian carcinomas and 0 of 30 mesotheliomas using Western blotting (P < .001; 
test sensitivity and specificity, 82% and 100%, respectively). PRAME levels in 
müllerian carcinoma were unrelated to survival; however, PRAME protein 
expression was up-regulated in solid metastases compared with primary carcinoma 
and effusions (P < .001). Our data confirm that PRAME effectively differentiates 
müllerian carcinoma from malignant mesothelioma at the mRNA and protein levels, 
suggesting a role in the diagnostic workup of serosal cancers.

DOI: 10.1309/AJCPGA95KVSAUDMF
PMID: 22261449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2012 Sep;83(3):432-43. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.12.005. Epub 2012 Feb 25.

Vaccines in non-small cell lung cancer: rationale, combination strategies and 
update on clinical trials.

De Pas T(1), Giovannini M, Rescigno M, Catania C, Toffalorio F, Spitaleri G, 
Delmonte A, Barberis M, Spaggiari L, Solli P, Veronesi G, De Braud F.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit of Respiratory Tract and Sarcomas, New Drugs 
Development Division, European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy. 
Tommaso.depas@ieo.it

Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) remains the leading cause of cancer related 
mortality worldwide and despite some advances in therapy the overall prognosis 
remains disappointing. New therapeutic approaches like vaccination have been 
proposed and several clinical trials are ongoing. Many tumor antigens have been 
identified so far and specific tumor vaccines targeting these antigens have been 
developed. Even if the ideal setting for vaccine therapy might be the adjuvant 
one, vaccines seem to be potentially beneficial also in advanced disease and 
combination therapy could be a promising treatment option. In the advanced 
setting anti-MUC-1 vaccine (belagenpumatucel) and anti-TGF-β(2) vaccine (BPL-25) 
have entered in phase III trials as maintenance therapy after first line 
chemotherapy. In the adjuvant setting the most relevant and promising vaccines 
are directed against MAGE-A3 and PRAME, respectively. We will review the key 
points for effective active immunotherapies and combination therapies, giving an 
update on the most promising vaccines developed in NSCLC.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2011.12.005
PMID: 22366114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. PLoS One. 2012;7(2):e32165. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032165. Epub 2012 Feb
27.

NYESO-1/LAGE-1s and PRAME are targets for antigen specific T cells in 
chondrosarcoma following treatment with 5-Aza-2-deoxycitabine.

Pollack SM(1), Li Y, Blaisdell MJ, Farrar EA, Chou J, Hoch BL, Loggers ET, 
Rodler E, Eary JF, Conrad EU 3rd, Jones RL, Yee C.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle, 
Washington, United States of America. spollac@fhcrc.org

BACKGROUND: Chondrosarcoma has no proven systemic option in the metastatic 
setting. The development of a non-cross-resistant strategy, such as cellular 
immunotherapy using antigen-specific T cells would be highly desirable. NY-ESO-1 
and PRAME are members of the Cancer Testis Antigen (CTA) family that have been 
identified as promising targets for T cell therapy. LAGE-1 is a cancer testis 
antigen 90% homologous to NY-ESO-1, sharing the 157-165 A*0201 NY-ESO-1 epitope 
with its transcript variant, LAGE-1s. A number of CTA's have been induced using 
5-Aza-2-Deoxycitabine (5-Aza-dC) in other cancers. We sought to evaluate the 
feasibility of targeting chondrosarcoma tumors using NY-ESO-1/LAGE-1s and PRAME 
specific T cells using 5-Aza-dC to induce antigen expression.
METHODS: We used 11 flash frozen tumors from the University of Washington tumor 
bank to test for the expression of NY-ESO-1, PRAME, LAGE-1s and LAGE-1L in 
chondrosarcoma tumors. Using four chondrosarcoma cell lines we tested the 
expression of these CTA's with and without 5-Aza-dC treatments. Finally, using 
NY-ESO-1/LAGE-1s and PRAME specific effectors that we generated from sarcoma 
patients, we evaluated the ability of these T cells to lyse A*0201 expressing 
chondrosarcoma cell lines in vitro both with and without 5-Aza-dC treatment.
RESULTS: A minority (36%) of chondrosarcoma tumors expressed either NY-ESO-1 or 
LAGE-1s at >10% of our reference value and none expressed PRAME at that level. 
However, in all four of the chondrosarcoma cell lines tested, NY-ESO-1 and PRAME 
expression could be induced following treatment with 5-Aza-dC including in cell 
lines where expression was absent or barely detectable. Furthermore, 
NY-ESO-1/LAGE-1s and PRAME specific CD8+ effector T cells were able to 
specifically recognize and lyse A*0201 expressing chondrosarcoma cell lines 
following 5-Aza-dC treatment.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that adoptive immunotherapy in combination with 
5-Aza-dC may be a potential strategy to treat unresectable or metastatic 
chondrosarcoma patients where no proven systemic therapies exist.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0032165
PMCID: PMC3288075
PMID: 22384167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


148. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2012 Mar 23;419(4):801-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2012.02.110. Epub 2012 Feb 27.

Expression and prognostic relevance of PRAME in primary osteosarcoma.

Tan P(1), Zou C, Yong B, Han J, Zhang L, Su Q, Yin J, Wang J, Huang G, Peng T, 
Shen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Musculoskeletal Tumor Center, First 
Affiliated Hospital of Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou 510080, China.

The preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME), a cancer-testis 
antigen with unknown function, is expressed in many human malignancies and is 
considered an attractive potential target for tumor immunotherapy. However, 
studies of its expression and function in osteosarcoma have rarely been 
reported. In this study, we found that PRAME is expressed in five osteosarcoma 
cell lines and in more than 70% of osteosarcoma patient specimens. In addition, 
an immunohistochemical analysis showed that high PRAME expression was associated 
with poor prognosis and lung metastasis. Furthermore, PRAME siRNA knockdown 
significantly suppressed the proliferation, colony formation, and G1 cell cycle 
arrest in U-2OS cells. Our results suggest that PRAME plays an important role in 
cell proliferation and disease progression in osteosarcoma. However, the detail 
mechanisms of PRAME function in osteosarcoma require further investigation.

Crown Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2012.02.110
PMID: 22390931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2012 Oct;61(10):1769-79. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-012-1239-z. Epub 2012 Mar 15.

Hodgkin's lymphoma RNA-transfected dendritic cells induce cancer/testis 
antigen-specific immune responses.

Winkler C(1), Steingrube DS, Altermann W, Schlaf G, Max D, Kewitz S, Emmer A, 
Kornhuber M, Banning-Eichenseer U, Staege MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, 
Ernst-Grube-Str. 40, 06097 Halle, Germany.

Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) can kill Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) cells, and CTL 
have been used for the treatment of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-positive HL. For 
patients with EBV-negative HL, this strategy cannot be employed and alternative 
target structures have to be defined. In order to establish a system for the 
stimulation of HL-reactive T cells, we used dendritic cells (DC) as 
antigen-presenting cells for autologous T cells and transfected these DC with 
RNA from established HL cell lines. After stimulation of peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells (PBMC) with RNA-transfected DC, we analyzed the reactivity of 
primed PBMC by interferon gamma enzyme-linked immunospot. Our results suggest 
the presence of antigens with expression in HL cell lines and recognition of 
these antigens in combination with DC-derived human leukocyte antigen molecules. 
By the analysis of Gene Expression Omnibus microarray data sets from HL cell 
lines and primary HL samples in comparison with testis and other normal tissues, 
we identified HL-associated cancer testis antigens (CTA) including the 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME). After stimulation of PBMC 
with RNA-transfected DC, we detected PRAME-reactive T cells. PRAME and other 
HL-associated CTA might be targets for HL-specific immune therapy or for the 
monitoring of HL-directed immune responses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-012-1239-z
PMID: 22419371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Leuk Res. 2012 Jul;36(7):895-9. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2012.02.030. Epub
2012  Apr 13.

Epigenetic regulation of PRAME in acute myeloid leukemia is different compared 
to CD34+ cells from healthy donors: effect of 5-AZA treatment.

Gutierrez-Cosío S(1), de la Rica L, Ballestar E, Santamaría C, Sánchez-Abarca 
LI, Caballero-Velazquez T, Blanco B, Calderón C, Herrero-Sánchez C, Carrancio S, 
Ciudad L, Cañizo C, San Miguel JF, Pérez-Simón JA.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Unit, Hospital Universitario de Salamanca, Salamanca, Spain.

PRAME is a tumor associated antigen (TAA) of particular interest since it is 
widely expressed by lymphoid and myeloid malignancies. Several studies have 
associated high PRAME RNA levels with good prognosis in acute myeloid leukemia 
(AML). PRAME expression is regulated at the epigenetic level. For this reason 
inhibitors of DNA methylation, such as 5-azacytidine, can modulate the 
expression of this TAAs. In the current study we analyzed the effect of 5-azaC 
on the expression of PRAME in blasts versus CD34+ cells from healthy donors in 
an attempt to increase its expression, thus inducing a potential target for 
therapeutic strategies.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2012.02.030
PMID: 22503131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Br J Cancer. 2012 Jun 26;107(1):116-22. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2012.215. Epub 2012
May  17.

Expression of MAGE-A3, NY-ESO-1, LAGE-1 and PRAME in urothelial carcinoma.

Dyrskjøt L(1), Zieger K, Kissow Lildal T, Reinert T, Gruselle O, Coche T, Borre 
M, Ørntoft TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby, 
Brendstrupgaardsvej 100, Aarhus N, 8200 Aarhus, Denmark. lars@ki.au.dk

BACKGROUND: The potential for cancer-testis (CT) antigens as targets for 
immunotherapy in cancer patients has been heavily investigated, and currently 
cancer vaccine trials based on the CT antigens, MAGE-A3 and NY-ESO-1, are being 
carried out.
METHODS: We used specific q-RT-PCR assays to analyse the expression of the CT 
genes MAGE-A3, NY-ESO-1 (CTAG1B), LAGE-1 (CTAG2) and PRAME in a panel of bladder 
tumours from 350 patients with long-term follow-up and detailed treatment 
information.
RESULTS: Overall, 43% of the tumours expressed MAGE-A3, 35% expressed NY-ESO-1, 
27% expressed LAGE-1 and 20% expressed PRAME. In all, 56% of the tumours 
expressed at least one of the CT genes analysed. Univariate Cox regression 
analysis of CT gene expression in non-muscle-invasive tumours showed that 
expression of MAGE-A3 (P=0.026), LAGE-1 (P=0.001) and NY-ESO-1 (P=0.040) was 
significantly associated with a shorter progression-free survival. In addition, 
we found that patients with tumours expressing PRAME responded poorly to 
chemotherapy (P=0.02, χ(2)-test).
CONCLUSION: Cancer-testis genes are frequently expressed in bladder cancer and 
especially in tumours of high stage and grade. In addition, the CT gene 
expression may have both prognostic and predictive value. Development of 
specific immunotherapy against the CT antigens in bladder cancer may ultimately 
increase patient survival.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2012.215
PMCID: PMC3389414
PMID: 22596240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Blood Cancer J. 2011 Mar;1(3):e11. doi: 10.1038/bcj.2011.12. Epub 2011 Mar
18.

FLT3-regulated antigens as targets for leukemia-reactive cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes.

Brackertz B, Conrad H, Daniel J, Kast B, Krönig H, Busch DH, Adamski J, Peschel 
C, Bernhard H.

The FMS-like tyrosine kinase 3 (FLT3) is highly expressed in acute myeloid 
leukemia (AML). Internal tandem duplications (ITD) of the juxtamembrane domain 
lead to the constitutive activation of the FLT3 kinase inducing the activation 
of multiple genes, which may result in the expression of leukemia-associated 
antigens (LAAs). We analyzed the regulation of LAA in FLT3-wild-type (WT)- and 
FLT3-ITD(+) myeloid cells to identify potential targets for antigen-specific 
immunotherapy for AML patients. Antigens, such as PR-3, RHAMM, Survivin, WT-1 
and PRAME, were upregulated by constitutively active FLT3-ITD as well as FLT3-WT 
activated by FLT3 ligand (FL). Cytotoxic T-cell (CTL) clones against PR-3, 
RHAMM, Survivin and an AML-directed CTL clone recognized AML cell lines and 
primary AML blasts expressing FLT3-ITD, as well as FLT3-WT(+) myeloid dendritic 
cells in the presence of FL. Downregulation of FLT3 led to the abolishment of 
CTL recognition. Comparing our findings concerning LAA upregulation by the FLT3 
kinase with those already made for the Bcr-Abl kinase, we found analogies in the 
LAA expression pattern. Antigens upregulated by both FLT3 and Bcr-Abl may be 
promising targets for the development of immunotherapeutical approaches against 
myeloid leukemia of different origin.

DOI: 10.1038/bcj.2011.12
PMCID: PMC3255276
PMID: 22829124


153. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e42822. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0042822. Epub 2012 Aug
13.

The human EKC/KEOPS complex is recruited to Cullin2 ubiquitin ligases by the 
human tumour antigen PRAME.

Costessi A(1), Mahrour N, Sharma V, Stunnenberg R, Stoel MA, Tijchon E, Conaway 
JW, Conaway RC, Stunnenberg HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Nijmegen Centre for Molecular Life Sciences, 
Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

The human tumour antigen PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma) is 
frequently overexpressed during oncogenesis, and high PRAME levels are 
associated with poor clinical outcome in a variety of cancers. However, the 
molecular pathways in which PRAME is implicated are not well understood. We 
recently characterized PRAME as a BC-box subunit of a Cullin2-based E3 ubiquitin 
ligase. In this study, we mined the PRAME interactome to a deeper level and 
identified specific interactions with OSGEP and LAGE3, which are human 
orthologues of the ancient EKC/KEOPS complex. By characterizing biochemically 
the human EKC complex and its interactions with PRAME, we show that PRAME 
recruits a Cul2 ubiquitin ligase to EKC. Moreover, EKC subunits associate with 
PRAME target sites on chromatin. Our data reveal a novel link between the 
oncoprotein PRAME and the conserved EKC complex and support a role for both 
complexes in the same pathways.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0042822
PMCID: PMC3418287
PMID: 22912744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


154. Oral Oncol. 2013 Feb;49(2):144-51. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2012.08.005.
Epub  2012 Sep 1.

PRAME expression in head and neck cancer correlates with markers of poor 
prognosis and might help in selecting candidates for retinoid chemoprevention in 
pre-malignant lesions.

Szczepanski MJ(1), DeLeo AB, Łuczak M, Molinska-Glura M, Misiak J, Szarzynska B, 
Dworacki G, Zagor M, Rozwadowska N, Kurpisz M, Krzeski A, Kruk-Zagajewska A, 
Kopec T, Banaszewski J, Whiteside TL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, University of Medical Sciences, Poznan, 
Poland.

OBJECTIVES: PRAME (Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma) is a 
tumor-associated antigen recognized by immunocytes, and it induces cytotoxic T 
cell-mediated responses in melanoma. PRAME expression in tumors interferes with 
retinoic acid receptor (RAR) signaling thus promoting tumor progression. Here, 
we study PRAME expression in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) to 
determine its potential clinical significance.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: PRAME expression in HNSCC was evaluated by 
immunohistochemistry in tissue microarrays of primary tumors (n=53), metastatic 
lymph nodes (n=8) and normal oral mucosa (n=11). Biopsies of dysplastic oral 
lesions (n=12) were also examined. PRAME expression levels in tissues were 
correlated with markers of poor prognosis in HNSCC. PRAME mRNA in HNSCC cell 
lines and in normal immortalized human keratinocytes (HaCaT cell line) was 
measured by qRT-PCR, and the protein expression by flow cytometry and western 
blots.
RESULTS: PRAME was expressed in HNSCC cell lines and HNSCC lesions. PRAME 
expression in dysplastic mucosa was variable. No or only weak expression was 
found in normal cells or tissues. PRAME expression levels significantly 
correlated with the tumor grade, size, nodal involvement and the clinical status 
of HNSCC patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated PRAME expression associates with clinicopathologic markers 
of poor outcome in HNSCC and might identify potential candidates with 
pre-cancerous lesions for chemoprevention with retinoids.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2012.08.005
PMCID: PMC3607432
PMID: 22944049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Oncol Rep. 2012 Dec;28(6):1959-67. doi: 10.3892/or.2012.2057. Epub 2012 Sep
26.

Molecular and genomic approach for understanding the gene-environment 
interaction between Nrf2 deficiency and carcinogenic nickel-induced DNA damage.

Kim HL(1), Seo YR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Dongguk University, Jung-gu, Seoul 100-715, 
Republic of Korea.

Nickel (Ⅱ) is a toxic and carcinogenic metal which induces a redox imbalance 
following oxidative stress. Nuclear factor erythroid-2 related factor 2 (Nrf2) 
is a redox factor that regulates oxidation/reduction status and consequently 
mediates cytoprotective responses against exposure to environmental toxicants. 
In this study, we investigated the protective roles of the Nrf2 gene against 
oxidative stress and DNA damage induced by nickel at sub-lethal doses. Under 
nickel exposure conditions, we detected significantly increased intracellular 
ROS generation, in addition to higher amounts of DNA damage using comet assay 
and γ-H2AX immunofluorescence staining in Nrf2 lacking cells, as compared to 
Nrf2 wild-type cells. In addition, we attempted to identify potential nickel and 
Nrf2-responsive targets and the relevant pathway. The genomic expression data 
were analyzed using microarray for the selection of synergistic effect-related 
genes by Nrf2 knockdown under nickel treatment. In particular, altered 
expressions of 6 upregulated genes (CAV1, FOSL2, MICA, PIM2, RUNX1 and SLC7A6) 
and 4 downregulated genes (APLP1, CLSPN, PCAF and PRAME) were confirmed by 
qRT-PCR. Additionally, using bioinformatics tool, we found that these genes 
functioned principally in a variety of molecular processes, including oxidative 
stress response, necrosis, DNA repair and cell survival. Thus, we describe the 
potential biomarkers regarded as molecular candidates for Nrf2-related cellular 
protection against nickel exposure. In conclusion, these findings indicate that 
Nrf2 is an important factor with a protective role in the suppression of 
mutagenicity and carcinogenicity by environmental nickel exposure in terms of 
gene-environment interaction.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2012.2057
PMCID: PMC3583472
PMID: 23023193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Biomark Med. 2012 Oct;6(5):629-32. doi: 10.2217/bmm.12.65.

The cancer testis antigen PRAME as a biomarker for solid tumor cancer 
management.

Goodison S, Urquidi V.

DOI: 10.2217/bmm.12.65
PMID: 23075240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Leuk Lymphoma. 2013 Jul;54(7):1442-9. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2012.743656.
Epub  2012 Nov 26.

PRAME and WT1 transcripts constitute a good molecular marker combination for 
monitoring minimal residual disease in myelodysplastic syndromes.

Qin YZ(1), Zhu HH, Liu YR, Wang YZ, Shi HX, Lai YY, Xu LP, Liu DH, Jiang Q, Li 
LD, Jiang B, Liu KY, Huang XJ.

Author information:
(1)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, Beijing, China.

PRAME and WT1 transcript levels were simultaneously measured in 312 bone marrow 
samples collected from patients with newly diagnosed myelodysplastic syndromes 
(MDS) and 111 samples collected during the treatment of 17 patients. Both the 
positive rate and the > 1-log increase expression frequency of PRAME were 
similar to those of WT1 (74.4 % vs. 77.6%; 51.6% vs. 49.0%), and 88.1% of 
patients overexpressed at least one marker. Moreover, the frequencies of PRAME 
expression with higher degrees of increase were significantly higher compared 
with those of WT1 expression (> 2-log increase: 30.8% vs. 3.8%; > 3-log 
increase: 9.0% vs. 0%; all p < 0.001). PRAME had a higher log increase than WT1 
in 53.3% of the patients with overexpressed WT1. Both PRAME and WT1 transcript 
levels generally fluctuated within the normal range after hematopoietic stem 
cell transplant in all 10 patients in continuous complete remission. Six out of 
seven patients were predicted relapse by the combined detection: sustained 
positivity, or significant increase to be positive for both WT1 and PRAME in 
three patients, earlier by PRAME than WT1 or by PRAME alone in three patients. 
Thus, PRAME and WT1 transcripts constitute a good molecular marker combination 
for monitoring minimal residual disease in MDS.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2012.743656
PMID: 23110703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Curr Mol Med. 2013 Feb;13(2):296-304. doi: 10.2174/156652413804810727.

PRAME/EZH2-mediated regulation of TRAIL: a new target for cancer therapy.

De Carvalho DD(1), Mello BP, Pereira WO, Amarante-Mendes GP.

Author information:
(1)Ontario Cancer Institute, Princess Margaret Hospital, University Health 
Network, Toronto, Canada. ddecarv@uhnres.utoronto.ca

The tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) exerts a 
cancer cell-specific pro-apoptotic activity. This property made the TRAIL 
associated pathway one of the most promising strategies aimed at inducing 
tumor-selective death. In fact, several approaches have been considered to 
explore this pathway for cancer therapy, such as recombinant TRAIL, agonist 
antibodies for TRAIL receptors, and adenoviral TRAIL. However, all of these 
approaches have certain disadvantages that limit their clinical use. Our recent 
discovery that the complex PRAME/EZH2 is able to repress TRAIL expression, in a 
cancer-specific manner, suggests an alternative approach for combined cancer 
therapy. A genetic or pharmacological inhibition of TRAIL repressors in cancer 
cells could restore endogenous TRAIL expression, thereby overcoming some of the 
limitations of and/or cooperating with previous approaches.

DOI: 10.2174/156652413804810727
PMID: 23228130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Gene Ther. 2013 Aug;20(8):861-7. doi: 10.1038/gt.2013.4. Epub 2013 Jan 31.

Multi-cistronic vector encoding optimized safety switch for adoptive therapy 
with T-cell receptor-modified T cells.

van Loenen MM(1), de Boer R, Hagedoorn RS, Jankipersadsing V, Amir AL, 
Falkenburg JH, Heemskerk MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands. m.m.van_loenen@lumc.nl

T-cell receptor (TCR) gene transfer is an attractive strategy to equip T cells 
with defined antigen-specific TCRs using short-term in vitro procedures to 
target both hematological malignancies and solid tumors. TCR gene transfer poses 
different safety issues that might warrant the inclusion of a suicide gene. High 
affinity TCRs may result in on-target toxicity, and off-target reactivity 
directed against healthy tissue can be observed due to mixed TCR dimers. 
Inclusion of a suicide gene as a safety switch may abrogate these unwanted 
toxicities. Human CD20 has been proposed as a nonimmunogenic suicide gene 
targeted by widely used clinical-grade anti-CD20 antibodies that can 
additionally function as a selection marker. However, transduction of T cells 
with a multi-cistronic vector encoding both TCR and CD20 resulted in poor 
coexpression. In this study, we demonstrated that codon optimization of TCR and 
CD20 resulted in profound coexpression of both the preferentially expressed 
antigen in melanoma (PRAME)-TCR and CD20, allowing selective as well as 
efficient elimination of these engineered T cells in vitro. These results 
demonstrate the great potential of codon optimized CD20 to be broadly used in 
clinical trials as a safety switch.

DOI: 10.1038/gt.2013.4
PMID: 23364317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e55897. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055897. Epub 2013 Feb
11.

Knock-down of PRAME increases retinoic acid signaling and cytotoxic drug 
sensitivity of Hodgkin lymphoma cells.

Kewitz S(1), Staege MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg, Halle, 
Germany.

The prognosis for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) has improved in recent 
decades. On the other hand, not all patients can be cured with the currently 
established therapy regimes and this therapy is associated with several adverse 
late effects. Therefore it is necessary to develop new therapy strategies. After 
treatment of L-540 HL cells with 5'-azacytidine (5AC), we observed increased 
expression of the preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME). In 
addition, we detected an increased resistance of 5AC-treated cells against 
cytotoxic drugs. We analyzed the influence of PRAME on cell survival of HL cells 
by knocking down PRAME in the chemotherapy resistant cell line L-428, a cell 
line that express PRAME at a high level. After knock-down of PRAME using vector 
based RNA interference we observed increased sensitivity for cisplatin, 
etoposide and retinoic acid. DNA microarray analysis of HL cells after PRAME 
knock-down indicated regulation of several genes including down-regulation of 
known anti-apoptotic factors. Increased retinoic acid signaling in these cells 
was revealed by increased expression of the retinoic acid metabolizing 
cytochrome P450 (CYP26B1), a transcriptional target of retinoic acid signaling. 
Our data suggest that PRAME inhibits retinoic acid signaling in HL cells and 
that the knock-down of PRAME might be an interesting option for the development 
of new therapy strategies for patients with chemo-resistant HL.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055897
PMCID: PMC3569423
PMID: 23409080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


161. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 May 1;19(9):2562-71. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-2524.  Epub 2013 Feb 26.

PRAME-induced inhibition of retinoic acid receptor signaling-mediated 
differentiation--a possible target for ATRA response in AML without t(15;17).

Bullinger L(1), Schlenk RF, Götz M, Botzenhardt U, Hofmann S, Russ AC, Babiak A, 
Zhang L, Schneider V, Döhner K, Schmitt M, Döhner H, Greiner J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.

Comment in
    Clin Cancer Res. 2013 May 1;19(9):2277-9.

PURPOSE: In acute myeloid leukemia (AML) without retinoic acid receptor (RAR) 
rearrangement, the effect of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA) is still poorly 
understood despite an association of NPM1 mutation and ATRA response. Recently, 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has been shown to be a 
dominant repressor of RAR signaling.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Thus, we further investigated ATRA response mechanisms, 
especially the impact of PRAME expression on ATRA responsiveness. We profiled 
gene expression in diagnostic samples derived from our AML HD98B trial, in which 
ATRA was administered in addition to intensive chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Our data revealed a PRAME expression-associated gene pattern to be 
significantly enriched for genes involved in the retinoic acid metabolic 
process. In leukemia cell line models, we could show that retinoic 
acid-regulated cell proliferation and differentiation are impacted by PRAME 
expression. In patients with primary AML, repressor activity of high-PRAME 
levels might be overcome by the addition of ATRA as indicated by better outcome 
in 2 independent studies (P = 0.029).
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME seems to impair differentiation and to increase proliferation 
likely via blocking RAR signaling, which might be reversed by ATRA. PRAME 
therefore represents a promising target for both ATRA treatment and possibly 
future immunotherapeutic approaches in AML.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-11-2524
PMID: 23444226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e58052. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058052. Epub 2013 Feb
27.

PRAME is a golgi-targeted protein that associates with the Elongin BC complex 
and is upregulated by interferon-gamma and bacterial PAMPs.

Wadelin FR(1), Fulton J, Collins HM, Tertipis N, Bottley A, Spriggs KA, Falcone 
FH, Heery DM.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Centre for Biomolecular Sciences, University of 
Nottingham, University Park, Nottingham, United Kingdom.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2015;10(6):e0129297.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has been described as a 
cancer-testis antigen and is associated with leukaemias and solid tumours. Here 
we show that PRAME gene transcription in leukaemic cell lines is rapidly induced 
by exposure of cells to bacterial PAMPs (pathogen associated molecular patterns) 
in combination with type 2 interferon (IFNγ). Treatment of HL60 cells with 
lipopolysaccharide or peptidoglycan in combination with IFNγ resulted in a rapid 
and transient induction of PRAME transcription, and increased association of 
PRAME transcripts with polysomes. Moreover, treatment with PAMPs/IFNγ also 
modulated the subcellular localisation of PRAME proteins in HL60 and U937 cells, 
resulting in targeting of cytoplasmic PRAME to the Golgi. Affinity purification 
studies revealed that PRAME associates with Elongin B and Elongin C, components 
of Cullin E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes. This occurs via direct interaction of 
PRAME with Elongin C, and PRAME colocalises with Elongins in the Golgi after 
PAMP/IFNγ treatment. PRAME was also found to co-immunoprecipitate core histones, 
consistent with its partial localisation to the nucleus, and was found to bind 
directly to histone H3 in vitro. Thus, PRAME is upregulated by signalling 
pathways that are activated in response to infection/inflammation, and its 
product may have dual functions as a histone-binding protein, and in directing 
ubiquitylation of target proteins for processing in the Golgi.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058052
PMCID: PMC3584020
PMID: 23460923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


163. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 May 1;19(9):2277-9. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0386.  Epub 2013 Mar 26.

PRAMEing a picture of differentiation therapy for AML?

Redner RL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, 
USA. redner@pitt.edu

Comment on
    Clin Cancer Res. 2013 May 1;19(9):2562-71.

Addition of retinoic acid to chemotherapy improves survival of patients with 
acute myeloid leukemia. This effect is more pronounced in leukemias that express 
high levels of PRAME. PRAME is an inhibitor of retinoic acid signaling, which 
may prove to be an important marker for retinoic acid response.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0386
PMID: 23532884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. PLoS One. 2013;8(4):e60611. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060611. Epub 2013 Apr
2.

Differential expression of PRAMEL1, a cancer/testis antigen, during 
spermatogenesis in the mouse.

Mistry BV(1), Zhao Y, Chang TC, Yasue H, Chiba M, Oatley J, Diaz F, Liu WS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Center for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA, USA.

PRAME belongs to a group of cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) that are characterized 
by their restricted expression in normal gametogenic tissues and a variety of 
tumors. The PRAME family is one of the most amplified gene families in the mouse 
and other mammalian genomes. Members of the PRAME gene family encode 
leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteins functioning as transcription regulators in 
cancer cells. However, the role of PRAME in normal gonads is unknown. The 
objective of this study is to characterize the temporal and spatial expression 
of the mouse Pramel1 gene, and to determine the cellular localization of the 
PRAMEL1 protein during the mouse spermatogenesis. Our results indicated that the 
mouse Pramel1 was expressed in testis only. The mRNA and protein expression 
level was low in the newborn testes, and gradually increased from 1- to 
3-week-old testes, and then remained constant after three weeks of age. 
Immunofluorescent staining on testis sections with the mouse PRAMEL1 antibody 
revealed that PRAMEL1 was localized in the cytoplasm of spermatocytes and the 
acrosomal region of round, elongating and elongated spermatids. Further analyses 
on the testis squash preparation and spermatozoa at a subcellular level 
indicated that the protein localization patterns of PRAMEL1 were coordinated 
with morphological alterations during acrosome formation in spermatids, and were 
significantly different in connecting piece, middle piece and principal piece of 
the flagellum between testicular and epididymal spermatozoa. Collectively, our 
results suggest that PRAMEL1 may play a role in acrosome biogenesis and sperm 
motility.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0060611
PMCID: PMC3614976
PMID: 23565261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


165. Br J Haematol. 2013 Jul;162(2):282-5. doi: 10.1111/bjh.12352. Epub 2013 Apr
18.

High and low, but not intermediate, PRAME expression levels are poor prognostic 
markers in myelodysplastic syndrome at disease presentation.

Liberante FG, Pellagatti A, Boncheva V, Bowen DT, Mills KI, Boultwood J, Guinn 
BA.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.12352
PMID: 23594062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Leuk Res. 2013 Jul;37(7):802-8. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2013.03.018. Epub
2013  Apr 20.

The origin of deletion 22q11 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia is related to the 
rearrangement of immunoglobulin lambda light chain locus.

Mraz M(1), Stano Kozubik K, Plevova K, Musilova K, Tichy B, Borsky M, Kuglik P, 
Doubek M, Brychtova Y, Mayer J, Pospisilova S.

Author information:
(1)CEITEC, Center of Molecular Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech 
Republic. marek.mraz@email.cz

The technology of array comparative genomic hybridization (array-CGH/aCGH) 
enabled the identification of novel genomic aberrations in chronic lymphocytic 
leukemia (CLL) including the monoallelic and biallelic deletions affecting 22q11 
locus. In contrast to previous publications, we hypothesized that the described 
22q11 deletions are a consequence of the rearrangement of immunoglobulin lambda 
light chain locus (IGL) segments surrounding several protein-coding genes 
located in this region. Indeed, using array-CGH and PCR analysis we show that 
all deletions (n=7) affecting the 22q11 locus in our cohort (n=40) are based on 
the physiological mechanism of IGL rearrangement. This demonstrates that this 
loss of genetic material is likely not pathogenic and in fact is merely a marker 
of IGL rearrangement.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2013.03.018
PMID: 23608880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Cancer Biol Med. 2012 Mar;9(1):73-6. doi:
10.3969/j.issn.2095-3941.2012.01.013.

PRAME Gene Expression in Acute Leukemia and Its Clinical Significance.

Ding K(1), Wang XM, Fu R, Ruan EB, Liu H, Shao ZH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, General Hospital of Tianjin Medical University, 
Tianjin 300052, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the expression of the preferentially expressed antigen 
of melanoma (PRAME) gene in acute leukemia and its clinical significance.
METHODS: The level of expressed PRAME mRNA in bone marrow mononuclear cells from 
34 patients with acute leukemia (AL) and in 12 bone marrow samples from healthy 
volunteers was measured via RT-PCR. Correlation analyses between PRAME gene 
expression and the clinical characteristics (gender, age, white blood count, 
immunophenotype of leukemia, percentage of blast cells, and karyotype) of the 
patients were performed.
RESULTS: The PRAME gene was expressed in 38.2% of all 34 patients, in 40.7% of 
the patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML, n=27), and in 28.6% of the 
patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL, n=7), but was not expressed in 
the healthy volunteers. The difference in the expression levels between AML and 
ALL patients was statistically significant. The rate of gene expression was 80% 
in M3, 33.3% in M2, and 28.6% in M5. Gene expression was also found to be 
correlated with CD15 and CD33 expression and abnormal karyotype, but not with 
age, gender, white blood count or percentage of blast cells.
CONCLUSIONS: The PRAME gene is highly expressed in acute leukemia and could be a 
useful marker to monitor minimal residual disease. This gene is also a candidate 
target for the immunotherapy of acute leukemia.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.2095-3941.2012.01.013
PMCID: PMC3643640
PMID: 23691459

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflicts of interest are 
disclosed.


168. Oncoimmunology. 2013 Apr 1;2(4):e23971. doi: 10.4161/onci.23971.

Priming of PRAME- and WT1-specific CD8(+) T cells in healthy donors but not in 
AML patients in complete remission: Implications for immunotherapy.

van den Ancker W(1), Ruben JM, Westers TM, Wulandari D, Bontkes HJ, Hooijberg E, 
Stam AG, Santegoets SJ, Ossenkoppele GJ, de Gruijl T, van de Loosdrecht A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology; VU University Medical Center/Cancer Center 
Amsterdam; Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Active immunotherapy may prevent the relapse of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) by 
inducing leukemia-specific T cells. Here, we investigated whether Wilms' tumor 1 
(WT1) and preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME)-specific T cells 
could be induced upon the priming of healthy donor- and AML patient-derived T 
cells with HLA-A2-matched, peptide-loaded allogeneic dendritic cells. 
AML-reactive, tetramer (Tm)-binding and interferon-producing, cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes specific for PRAME could readily be isolated from healthy 
individuals and maintained in culture. In this setting, priming efficacy was 
significantly higher for PRAME than for WT1. The priming of T cells from 
patient-derived material proved to be near-to-impossible: No leukemia-associated 
antigen (LAA)-specific T cell could be primed in 4 patients that had recently 
achieved a complete response (CR), and in only 1 out of 3 patients exhibiting a 
sustained CR we did observe WT1-specific T cells, though with a low frequency. 
These findings suggest that the functionality and/or repertoire of T cells 
differ in healthy subjects and AML patients in CR, and may have repercussions 
for the implementation of active vaccination approaches against AML.

DOI: 10.4161/onci.23971
PMCID: PMC3654602
PMID: 23734332


169. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 Sep 15;19(18):5079-91. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0955.  Epub 2013 Jul 9.

Generation of tumor antigen-specific T cell lines from pediatric patients with 
acute lymphoblastic leukemia--implications for immunotherapy.

Weber G(1), Caruana I, Rouce RH, Barrett AJ, Gerdemann U, Leen AM, Rabin KR, 
Bollard CM.

Author information:
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Departments of 
Pediatrics, Medicine, and Immunology, Baylor College of Medicine; The Methodist 
Hospital; Texas Children's Hospital; Texas Children's Cancer Center, Houston, 
Texas; and Hematology Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, NIH, 
Bethesda, Maryland.

PURPOSE: Although modern cure rates for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia 
(ALL) exceed 80%, the outlook remains poor in patients with high-risk disease 
and those who relapse, especially when allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation is not feasible. Strategies to improve outcome and prevent 
relapse are therefore required. Immunotherapy with antigen-specific T cells can 
have antileukemic activity without the toxicities seen with intensive 
chemotherapy, and therefore represents an attractive strategy to improve the 
outcome of high-risk patients with ALL. We explored the feasibility of 
generating tumor antigen-specific T cells ex vivo from the peripheral blood of 
50 patients with ALL [26 National Cancer Institute (NCI) high-risk and 24 
standard-risk] receiving maintenance therapy.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were stimulated with 
autologous dendritic cells pulsed with complete peptide libraries of WT1, 
Survivin, MAGE-A3, and PRAME, antigens frequently expressed on ALL blasts.
RESULTS: T-cell lines were successfully expanded from all patients, despite low 
lymphocyte counts and irrespective of NCI risk group. Antigen-specificity was 
observed in more than 50% of patients after the initial stimulation and 
increased to more than 90% after three stimulations as assessed in 
IFN-γ-enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot) and (51)Cr-release assays. Moreover, 
tumor-specific responses were observed by reduction of autologous leukemia 
blasts in short- and long-term coculture experiments.
CONCLUSION: This study supports the use of immunotherapy with adoptively 
transferred autologous tumor antigen-specific T cells to prevent relapse and 
improve the prognosis of patients with high-risk ALL.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0955
PMCID: PMC3778051
PMID: 23838315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Biomark Med. 2013 Aug;7(4):575-8. doi: 10.2217/bmm.13.68.

Elevated PRAME expression: what does this mean for treatment of head and neck 
squamous cell carcinoma?

Szczepanski MJ(1), Whiteside TL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, 
Poznan, Poland.

DOI: 10.2217/bmm.13.68
PMCID: PMC3888223
PMID: 23905893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 5;8(8):e70522. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070522. Print
2013.

Increased PRAME-specific CTL killing of acute myeloid leukemia cells by either a 
novel histone deacetylase inhibitor chidamide alone or combined treatment with 
decitabine.

Yao Y(1), Zhou J, Wang L, Gao X, Ning Q, Jiang M, Wang J, Wang L, Yu L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and BMT Center, Chinese PLA General Hospital, 
Beijing, China.

As one of the best known cancer testis antigens, PRAME is overexpressed 
exclusively in germ line tissues such as the testis as well as in a variety of 
solid and hematological malignant cells including acute myeloid leukemia. 
Therefore, PRAME has been recognized as a promising target for both active and 
adoptive anti-leukemia immunotherapy. However, in most patients with 
PRAME-expressing acute myeloid leukemia, PRAME antigen-specific CD8(+) CTL 
response are either undetectable or too weak to exert immune surveillance 
presumably due to the inadequate PRAME antigen expression and PRAME-specific 
antigen presentation by leukemia cells. In this study, we observed remarkably 
increased PRAME mRNA expression in human acute myeloid leukemia cell lines and 
primary acute myeloid leukemia cells after treatment with a novel 
subtype-selective histone deacetylase inhibitor chidamide in vitro. PRAME 
expression was further enhanced in acute myeloid leukemia cell lines after 
combined treatment with chidamide and DNA demethylating agent decitabine. 
Pre-treatment of an HLA-A0201(+) acute myeloid leukemia cell line THP-1 with 
chidamide and/or decitabine increased sensitivity to purified CTLs that 
recognize PRAME(100-108) or PRAME(300-309) peptide presented by HLA-A0201. 
Chidamide-induced epigenetic upregulation of CD86 also contributed to increased 
cytotoxicity of PRAME antigen-specific CTLs. Our data thus provide a new line of 
evidence that epigenetic upregulation of cancer testis antigens by a 
subtype-selective HDAC inhibitor or in combination with hypomethylating agent 
increases CTL cytotoxicity and may represent a new opportunity in future design 
of treatment strategy targeting specifically PRAME-expressing acute myeloid 
leukemia.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070522
PMCID: PMC3734248
PMID: 23940586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


172. Acta Haematol. 2013;130(4):297-304. doi: 10.1159/000351166. Epub 2013 Aug
31.

Correlation between preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma and tumour 
necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand gene expression in different 
types of leukaemia patients.

Zhang W(1), Chi K, Zhang Y, Ma B, Shi J, Chen Y, Lei P, Li Y, Sun K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Henan Provincial Hospital, Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou, PR China.

INTRODUCTION: Tumour necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) 
down-regulation by preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is a 
general phenomenon in different types of solid tumours, but research on the 
correlation between PRAME and TRAIL gene expression in leukaemia patients is 
rare.
METHOD: PRAME and TRAIL expression was detected in bone marrow samples from 80 
newly diagnosed acute leukaemia (AL) patients and 40 chronic myeloid leukaemia 
(CML) patients using TaqMan-based real-time quantitative PCR methods, and a 
linear correlation analysis was performed on their levels of expression. A total 
of 15 normal bone marrow samples from individuals with non-malignant 
haematological diseases served as normal controls.
RESULTS: PRAME expression was higher in both AL and CML patients compared to 
controls (both p < 0.001). CML patients in both blast crisis (BC) and the 
accelerated phase (AP) had significantly higher PRAME levels than CML patients 
in the chronic phase (CP) (p = 0.006 and 0.0461, respectively). TRAIL expression 
was higher in both the acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) group and the acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) group than in the controls (p = 0.039 and 0.047, 
respectively). In contrast, CML patients had lower TRAIL levels than controls (p 
= 0.043), and TRAIL expression in CML patients in the advanced phases (BC and 
AP) was significantly lower than in CML-CP patients (p = 0.006). In CML 
patients, there was a significant inverse correlation (Spearman's R = -0.6669, p 
< 0.0001) between PRAME and TRAIL gene expression, while a greater significant 
inverse correlation was found in patients in the advanced phases (BC and AP) (R 
= -0.6764). In addition, no correlation was observed in AML and ALL patients.
CONCLUSION: The simultaneous detection of PRAME and TRAIL gene expression may be 
helpful to monitor condition changes in leukaemia patients and evaluate 
therapeutic effects in clinical practice, particularly in CML patients.

© 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000351166
PMID: 24008770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 Sep 15;19(18):4941-50. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-1253.  Epub 2013 Sep 10.

Gene expression profiling using nanostring digital RNA counting to identify 
potential target antigens for melanoma immunotherapy.

Beard RE(1), Abate-Daga D, Rosati SF, Zheng Z, Wunderlich JR, Rosenberg SA, 
Morgan RA.

Author information:
(1)Authors' Affiliation: Surgery Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National 
Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.

PURPOSE: The success of immunotherapy for the treatment of metastatic cancer is 
contingent on the identification of appropriate target antigens. Potential 
targets must be expressed on tumors but show restricted expression on normal 
tissues. To maximize patient eligibility, ideal target antigens should be 
expressed on a high percentage of tumors within a histology and, potentially, in 
multiple different malignancies.
DESIGN: A Nanostring probeset was designed containing 97 genes, 72 of which are 
considered potential candidate genes for immunotherapy. Five established 
melanoma cell lines, 59 resected metastatic melanoma tumors, and 31 normal 
tissue samples were profiled and analyzed using Nanostring technology.
RESULTS: Of the 72 potential target genes, 33 were overexpressed in more than 
20% of studied melanoma tumor samples. Twenty of those genes were identified as 
differentially expressed between normal tissues and tumor samples by ANOVA 
analysis. Analysis of normal tissue gene expression identified seven genes with 
limited normal tissue expression that warrant further consideration as potential 
immunotherapy target antigens: CSAG2, MAGEA3, MAGEC2, IL13RA2, PRAME, CSPG4, and 
SOX10. These genes were highly overexpressed on a large percentage of the 
studied tumor samples, with expression in a limited number of normal tissue 
samples at much lower levels.
CONCLUSION: The application of Nanostring RNA counting technology was used to 
directly quantitate the gene expression levels of multiple potential tumor 
antigens. Analysis of cell lines, 59 tumors, and normal tissues identified seven 
potential immunotherapy targets for the treatment of melanoma that could 
increase the number of patients potentially eligible for adoptive immunotherapy.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-1253
PMCID: PMC3778100
PMID: 24021875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Bioinform Biol Insights. 2013 Sep 18;7:289-306. doi: 10.4137/BBI.S12494. 
eCollection 2013.

Molecular Insights on Post-chemotherapy Retinoblastoma by Microarray Gene 
Expression Analysis.

Nalini V(1), Segu R, Deepa PR, Khetan V, Vasudevan M, Krishnakumar S.

Author information:
(1)Larsen and Toubro Department of Ocular Pathology, Vision Research Foundation, 
Sankara Nethralaya, Chennai, India. ; Birla Institute of Technology and Science 
(BITS), Pilani, India.

PURPOSE: Management of Retinoblastoma (RB), a pediatric ocular cancer is limited 
by drug-resistance and drug-dosage related side effects during chemotherapy. 
Molecular de-regulation in post-chemotherapy RB tumors was investigated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: cDNA microarray analysis of two post-chemotherapy and one 
pre-chemotherapy RB tumor tissues was performed, followed by Principle Component 
Analysis, Gene ontology, Pathway Enrichment analysis and Biological Analysis 
Network (BAN) modeling. The drug modulation role of two significantly 
up-regulated genes (p≤0.05) - Ect2 (Epithelial-cell-transforming-sequence-2), 
and PRAME (preferentially-expressed-Antigen-in-Melanoma) was assessed by 
qRT-PCR, immunohistochemistry and cell viability assays.
RESULTS: Differential up-regulation of 1672 genes and down-regulation of 2538 
genes was observed in RB tissues (relative to normal adult retina), while 1419 
genes were commonly de-regulated between pre-chemotherapy and post- chemotherapy 
RB. Twenty one key gene ontology categories, pathways, biomarkers and phenotype 
groups harboring 250 differentially expressed genes were dys-regulated (EZH2, 
NCoR1, MYBL2, RB1, STAMN1, SYK, JAK1/2, STAT1/2, PLK2/4, BIRC5, LAMN1, Ect2, 
PRAME and ABCC4). Differential molecular expressions of PRAME and Ect2 in RB 
tumors with and without chemotherapy were analyzed. There was neither up- 
regulation of MRP1, nor any significant shift in chemotherapeutic IC50, in PRAME 
over-expressed versus non-transfected RB cells.
CONCLUSION: Cell cycle regulatory genes were dys-regulated post-chemotherapy. 
Ect2 gene was expressed in response to chemotherapy-induced stress. PRAME does 
not contribute to drug resistance in RB, yet its nuclear localization and BAN 
information, points to its possible regulatory role in RB.

DOI: 10.4137/BBI.S12494
PMCID: PMC3785389
PMID: 24092970


175. Oncol Rep. 2014 Jan;31(1):384-90. doi: 10.3892/or.2013.2804. Epub 2013 Oct
23.

Frequent T cell responses against immunogenic targets in lung cancer patients 
for targeted immunotherapy.

Babiak A(1), Steinhauser M, Götz M, Herbst C, Döhner H, Greiner J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, D-89081 Ulm, Germany.

To date, lung cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer mortality with short 
overall survival despite adequate therapy. New immunotherapeutic strategies 
using peptides derived from tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) can induce a 
specific cytotoxic T cell (CTL) response leading to a targeted tumor cell death. 
In the present study, we addressed whether there are further significant 
immunogenic candidate targets that may induce strong immune reactions with a 
high frequency in lung cancer patients eligible for cellular immunotherapeutic 
approaches, such as in a polyvalent vaccination approach. In this study, we 
investigated specific CTL responses of 14 HLA-A*0201-positive patients (of 33 
screened patients) with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC; n=12) or small cell 
lung cancer (SCLC; n=2) against several known and novel TAA-derived peptides 
from lung cancer and/or other tumor entities, by measuring granzyme B (GrB) 
and/or interferon γ (IFNγ) secretion using enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot) 
analysis. Specific T cell responses could be detected for hTERT (4/13), two 
MAGE-A3-derived peptides (4/13 and 3/13, respectively), RHAMM (4/14), PRAME 
(8/14), G250 (7/12), survivin (3/13), HER2 (5/10) and WT1 (2/14), but also novel 
epitopes derived from Aurora kinase A (4/13) and B (5/13). Additionally, 
simultaneous CTL responses against the different peptides were examined and 
specific T cell responses against at least one of these TAAs could be detected 
in 13/14 (93%) patients. It could be shown that all patients with immune 
reactions against RHAMM and hTERT showed also immune responses against PRAME. 
Furthermore, patients with CTL responses against the Aurora kinase A peptide 
(Aura A1) also demonstrated a response against the Aurora kinase B peptide (Aura 
B1). Taken together, we showed that these TAA-derived peptides induce frequent 
specific T cell responses in patients with metastatic lung cancer and are, 
therefore, novel candidates for targeted immunotherapies and polyvalent 
approaches.

DOI: 10.3892/or.2013.2804
PMID: 24154794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Dermatol Sci. 2014 Mar;73(3):258-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jdermsci.2013.11.003.
Epub  2013 Nov 11.

PGJ2 restores RA sensitivity in melanoma cells by decreasing PRAME and EZH2.

Pierron A(1), Le Pape E(1), Montaudié H(2), Castela E(2), De Donatis GM(1), 
Allegra M(3), Bertolotto C(3), Rocchi S(3), Cheli Y(3), Ballotti R(4), Passeron 
T(5).

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U1065, Centre Méditerranéen de Médecine Moléculaire (C3M), team 12, 
Nice, France.
(2)INSERM, U1065, Centre Méditerranéen de Médecine Moléculaire (C3M), team 12, 
Nice, France; University Hospital of Nice, Department of Dermatology, Nice, 
France.
(3)INSERM, U1065, Centre Méditerranéen de Médecine Moléculaire (C3M), team 1, 
Nice, France.
(4)University Hospital of Nice, Department of Dermatology, Nice, France; INSERM, 
U1065, Centre Méditerranéen de Médecine Moléculaire (C3M), team 1, Nice, France.
(5)INSERM, U1065, Centre Méditerranéen de Médecine Moléculaire (C3M), team 12, 
Nice, France; University Hospital of Nice, Department of Dermatology, Nice, 
France. Electronic address: passeron@unice.fr.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdermsci.2013.11.003
PMID: 24289988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Immunobiology. 2014 Apr;219(4):247-60. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2013.10.008.
Epub  2013 Oct 27.

CD4(+)and CD8(+)T-cell reactions against leukemia-associated- or 
minor-histocompatibility-antigens in AML-patients after allogeneic SCT.

Steger B(1), Milosevic S(2), Doessinger G(3), Reuther S(4), Liepert A(5), Braeu 
M(2), Schick J(5), Vogt V(5), Schuster F(4), Kroell T(5), Busch DH(6), Borkhardt 
A(4), Kolb HJ(1), Tischer J(5), Buhmann R(1), Schmetzer H(7).

Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Center Munich (German Research Center for Environmental Health and 
Clinical Cooperative Group Hematopoetic Cell-Transplantation), 81377 Munich, 
Germany; University Hospital of Munich, Department for Hematopoetic Cell 
Transplantation, Med. Dept. 3, 81377 Munich, Germany.
(2)Helmholtz Center Munich (German Research Center for Environmental Health and 
Clinical Cooperative Group Hematopoetic Cell-Transplantation), 81377 Munich, 
Germany.
(3)Institute for Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Hygiene, and Focus 
Group'Clinical Cell Processing and Purification', Institute for Advanced Study, 
Technical University Munich, 81675 Munich, Germany.
(4)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hematology and Immunology, University 
Hospital Duesseldorf, 40225 Duesseldorf, Germany.
(5)University Hospital of Munich, Department for Hematopoetic Cell 
Transplantation, Med. Dept. 3, 81377 Munich, Germany.
(6)Institute for Medical Microbiology, Immunology and Hygiene, and Focus 
Group'Clinical Cell Processing and Purification', Institute for Advanced Study, 
Technical University Munich, 81675 Munich, Germany; Clinical Cooperation Groups 
"Antigen-specific Immunotherapy" and "Immune Monitoring", Helmholtz Center 
Munich and Technical University Munich, 81675 Munich, Germany.
(7)Helmholtz Center Munich (German Research Center for Environmental Health and 
Clinical Cooperative Group Hematopoetic Cell-Transplantation), 81377 Munich, 
Germany; University Hospital of Munich, Department for Hematopoetic Cell 
Transplantation, Med. Dept. 3, 81377 Munich, Germany. Electronic address: 
Helga.Schmetzer@med.uni-muenchen.de.

T-cells play an important role in the remission-maintenance in AML-patients 
(pts) after SCT, however the role of LAA- (WT1, PR1, PRAME) or 
minor-histocompatibility (mHag, HA1) antigen-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+)T-cells 
is not defined. A LAA/HA1-peptide/protein stimulation, cloning and monitoring 
strategy for specific CD8(+)/CD4(+)T-cells in AML-pts after SCT is given. Our 
results show that (1) LAA-peptide-specific CD8+T-cells are detectable in every 
AML-pt after SCT. CD8(+)T-cells, recognizing two different antigens detectable 
in 5 of 7 cases correlate with long-lasting remissions. Clonal 
TCR-Vβ-restriction exemplarily proven by spectratyping in PRAME-specific 
CD8(+)T-cells; high PRAME-peptide-reactivity was CD4(+)-associated, as shown by 
IFN-γ-release. (2) Two types of antigen-presenting cells (APCs) were tested for 
presentation of LAA/HA1-proteins to CD4(+)T-cells: miniEBV-transduced 
lymphoblastoid cells (B-cell-source) and CD4-depleted MNC (source for 
B-cell/monocyte/DC). We provide a refined cloning-system for proliferating, 
CD40L(+)CD4(+)T-cells after LAA/HA1-stimulation. CD4(+)T-cells produced 
cytokines (GM-CSF, IFN-γ) upon exposure to LAA/HA1-stimulation until after at 
least 7 restimulations and demonstrated cytotoxic activity against naive blasts, 
but not fibroblasts. Antileukemic activity of unstimulated, stimulated or cloned 
CD4(+)T-cells correlated with defined T-cell-subtypes and the clinical course of 
the disease. In conclusion we provide immunological tools to enrich and monitor 
LAA/HA1-CD4(+)- and CD8(+)T-cells in AML-pts after SCT and generate data with 
relevant prognostic value. We were able to demonstrate the presence of 
LAA-peptide-specific CD8(+)T-cell clones in AML-pts after SCT. In addition, we 
were also able to enrich specific antileukemic reactive CD4(+)T-cells without 
GvH-reactivity upon repeated LAA/HA1-protein stimulation and limiting dilution 
cloning.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2013.10.008
PMID: 24315637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Zhonghua Nan Ke Xue. 2013 Nov;19(11):977-83.

[Detecting testis- and epididymis-specific methylated promoters in human 
cell-free seminal DNA by MeDIP-qPCR].

[Article in Chinese]

Guan HT(1), Lü JM(2), Wu CL(1), Li HG(1), Zhu CH(1), Xiong CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Family Planning Research Institute/Center of Reproductive Medicine, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 
430030, China.
(2)Family Planning Service Station of Qichun County, Huanggang, Hubei 435300, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To establish a method of methyl-DNA immunoprecipitation (MeDIP)-real 
time quantitative PCR (qPCR) for detecting the promoter methylation level in 
cell-free seminal DNA (cfsDNA).
METHODS: We obtained cfsDNA samples from 6 normozoospermia men (the NZ group) 
and 6 post-vasectomy patients (the PV group), and mixed the samples from 
different individuals of each group, respectively. Then we made DNA fragments by 
ultrasonication, separated the methylated DNA fragments by MeDIP, and determined 
the methylation level of the promoters in cfsDNA by qPCR.
RESULTS: The methylation levels of the promoters PRAME, PEG10, MORC1, GML, 
HOXA5, DNMT3L, SNURF, MSH4, DAZ1 and CLPB were 14.93, 2.64, 0.69, 2.66, 17.50, 
21.10, 5.98, 2.28, 13.50 and 3.86%, respectively, in the NZ group, obviously 
lower than 121.25, 73.62, 16.25, 42.90, 76.74, 112.40, 59.79, 25.85, 91.90 and 
64.53% in the PV group. The results of MeDIP-qPCR for the methylation of PRAME, 
MORC1, GML, HOXA5, DNMT3L, SNURF, MSH4 and DAZ1 were coincident with the results 
of genome-wide promoter methylation microarray.
CONCLUSION: MeDIP-qPCR can quantitatively measure the promoter methylation level 
in cfsDNA, and effectively determine the testis- and epididymis-specific 
methylated promoters in human semen.

PMID: 24341089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Mod Pathol. 2014 Sep;27(9):1238-45. doi: 10.1038/modpathol.2013.244. Epub
2014  Jan 24.

Expression of cancer-testis antigens MAGEA1, MAGEA3, ACRBP, PRAME, SSX2, and 
CTAG2 in myxoid and round cell liposarcoma.

Hemminger JA(1), Toland AE(2), Scharschmidt TJ(3), Mayerson JL(3), Guttridge 
DC(2), Iwenofu OH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Wexner Medical Center at The 
Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Virology, Immunology and Medical Genetics, The Ohio 
State University Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, OH, USA.
(3)Department of Orthopedics, The Ohio State University Wexner Medical Center, 
Columbus, OH, USA.

Myxoid and round-cell liposarcoma is a frequently encountered liposarcoma 
subtype. The mainstay of treatment remains surgical excision with or without 
chemoradiation. However, treatment options are limited in the setting of 
metastatic disease. Cancer-testis antigens are immunogenic antigens with the 
expression largely restricted to testicular germ cells and various malignancies, 
making them attractive targets for cancer immunotherapy. Gene expression studies 
have reported the expression of various cancer-testis antigens in liposarcoma, 
with mRNA expression of CTAG1B, CTAG2, MAGEA9, and PRAME described specifically 
in myxoid and round-cell liposarcoma. Herein, we further explore the expression 
of the cancer-testis antigens MAGEA1, ACRBP, PRAME, and SSX2 in myxoid and 
round-cell liposarcoma by immunohistochemistry in addition to determining mRNA 
levels of CTAG2 (LAGE-1), PRAME, and MAGEA3 by quantitative real-time PCR. 
Samples in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded blocks (n=37) and frozen tissue 
(n=8) were obtained for immunohistochemistry and quantitative real-time PCR, 
respectively. Full sections were stained with antibodies to MAGEA1, ACRBP, 
PRAME, and SSX2 and staining was assessed for intensity (1-2+) and percent tumor 
positivity. The gene expression levels of CTAG2, PRAME, and MAGEA3 were measured 
by quantitative real-time PCR. In total, 37/37 (100%) of the samples showed 
predominantly strong, homogenous immunoreactivity for PRAME. There was a 
variable, focal expression of MAGEA1 (11%) and SSX2 (16%) and no expression of 
ACRBP. Quantitative real-time PCR demonstrated PRAME and CTAG2 transcripts in 
all eight samples: six tumors with high mRNA levels; two tumors with low mRNA 
levels. The gene expression of MAGEA3 was not detected in the majority of cases. 
In conclusion, myxoid and round-cell liposarcomas consistently express PRAME by 
immunohistochemistry as well as CTAG2 and PRAME by qualitative real-time PCR. 
This supports the use of cancer-testis antigen-targeted immunotherapy in the 
treatment of this malignancy.

DOI: 10.1038/modpathol.2013.244
PMCID: PMC4287229
PMID: 24457462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure/conflict of interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


180. Clin Lab. 2014;60(1):55-61. doi: 10.7754/clin.lab.2013.121137.

PRAME gene expression in childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia: impact on 
prognosis.

Abdelmalak CA(1), Yahya RS(1), Elghannam DM(2), El-Khadragy AE(2), Abd El Messih 
HM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Mansoura University, Egypt.
(2)Department of Clinical Pathology, Hematology Unit, Faculty of Medicine, 
Mansoura University, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: The PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) gene is 
frequently overexpressed in a wide variety of malignant diseases, including 
acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute B-cell malignancies.
AIM: To study the expression of PRAME gene and clarify its prognostic impact on 
disease outcome.
METHODS: Screening for PRAME gene expression was assessed using real-time 
reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in 55 pretreated ALL bone marrow 
samples.
RESULTS: PRAME positivity was found in 14 (31.3%) of 45 patients. No significant 
correlation could be observed between PRAME expression and clinical 
characteristics. Positive PRAME expressers had a statistically higher CR (p = 
0.001), lower relapse (p = 0.02), lower mortality (p < 0.001), a trend towards 
lower Refractory disease (p = 0.10), and a statistically longer DFS and OS (p < 
0.001, < 0.001, respectively) in comparison to negative PRAME expressers.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggested that PRAME was a predictor for better 
outcome, could be a useful target for immunotherapy, and might represent a 
candidate marker for the monitoring of minimal residual disease.

DOI: 10.7754/clin.lab.2013.121137
PMID: 24600975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2014 Apr;22(2):370-6. doi: 
10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2014.02.019.

[Expression of WT1 and PRAME gene in bone marrow and peripheral blood samples of 
patients with myelodysplastic syndrome].

[Article in Chinese]

Lu D(1), Qin YZ(1), Li LD(1), Shi HX(1), Lai YY(1), Liu YR(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hematology, Peking University People Hospital, Beijing 100044, 
China.
(2)Institute of Hematology, Peking University People Hospital, Beijing 100044, 
China. E-mail: yrliu163@163.com.

This study was aimed to explore the transcription level of WT1 and PRAME two 
genes in bone marrow and peripheral blood samples of patients with 
myelodysplastic syndrome(MDS) and their relationship with bone marrow dysplasia 
and karyotype. The quantitative expression of WT1 and PRAME transcripts detected 
by RQ-PCR in the bone marrow samples of 203 MDS patients and 19 aplastic 
anemia(AA), 6 other benign anemia(BA), 4 paroxysmal nocturnal 
hemoglobinuria(PNH) patients from July 2009 to June 2012 and 14 healthy donors, 
and in 92 peripheral blood samples. The results showed that WT1 and PRAME 
expression levels in both BM and PB samples of MDS group were higher than those 
in normal controls, AA, and BA patients (BM: WT1:P = 0.000, 0.000, 0.000, PRAME: 
P = 0.048, 0.000, 0.064; PB: WT1:P = 0.012, 0.000, 0.011, PRAME: P = 0.020, 
0.004, 0.003). What is more, this expression in high risk MDS group (RAEB1, 
RAEB2, MDS-AML) were higher than those in low risk group (RCUD, RCMD, MDS-U) and 
AA and BA. The WT1 and PRAME mRNA expression levels in PB and BM were well 
correlated (WT1:r = 0.6028, P = 0.001; PRAME: r = 0.7628, P = 0.000), as well as 
the WT1 expression levels in BM samples with the Karyotype (P = 0.049). In 
addition, the same positive rate of WT1 or PRAME expression existed in BM and PB 
samples of MDS patients. It is concluded that the WT1 and PRAME gene expression 
levels in both BM and PB samples of MDS patients are higher than those in 
healthy controls, AA and other benign anemia patients, and increase with the 
progression of the disease. The WT1 and PRAME transcripts constitute good 
molecular markers for the clinical diagnosis and prognosis and monitoring 
minimal residual disease after treatment of MDS. What is more, when bone marrow 
is not so convenient to get, the transcript levels of PB samples can be 
detected.

DOI: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2014.02.019
PMID: 24763007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Cancer Immunol Res. 2014 Apr;2(4):371-9. doi: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0088.
 Epub 2013 Nov 25.

Tumor subtype-specific cancer-testis antigens as potential biomarkers and 
immunotherapeutic targets for cancers.

Yao J(1), Caballero OL, Yung WK, Weinstein JN, Riggins GJ, Strausberg RL, Zhao 
Q.

Author information:
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Departments of Ludwig Collaborative Laboratory, 
Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.

Cancer-testis (CT) antigens are potential targets for cancer immunotherapy 
because of their restricted expression in immune-privileged germ cells and 
various malignancies. Current application of CT-based immunotherapy has been 
focused on CT expression-rich tumors such as melanoma and lung cancers. In this 
study, we surveyed CT expression using The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets 
for ten common cancer types. We show that CT expression is specific and enriched 
within certain cancer molecular subtypes. For example, HORMAD1, CXorf61, ACTL8, 
and PRAME are highly enriched in the basal subtype of breast cancer; MAGE and 
CSAG are most frequently activated in the magnoid subtype of lung 
adenocarcinoma; and PRAME is highly upregulated in the ccB subtype of clear cell 
renal cell carcinoma. Analysis of CT gene expression and DNA methylation 
indicates that some CTs are regulated epigenetically, whereas others are 
controlled primarily by tissue- and subtype-specific transcription factors. Our 
results suggest that although for some CT expression is associated with patient 
outcome, not many are independent prognostic markers. Thus, CTs with shared 
expression pattern are heterogeneous molecules with distinct activation modes 
and functional properties in different cancers and cancer subtypes. These data 
suggest a cancer subtype-orientated application of CT antigen as biomarkers and 
immunotherapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0088
PMCID: PMC4007352
PMID: 24764584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The other authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


183. Cancer Immunol Res. 2013 Nov;1(5):288-95. doi:
10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0113.  Epub 2013 Sep 25.

Spontaneous peripheral T-cell responses toward the tumor-associated antigen 
cyclin D1 in patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma.

Dannenmann SR(1), Hermanns T, Bransi A, Matter C, von Boehmer L, Stevanovic S, 
Schraml P, Moch H, Knuth A, van den Broek M.

Author information:
(1)Authors' Affiliations: Departments of Department of Immunology, Interfaculty 
Institute for Cell Biology, University of Tubingen, Tubingen, Germany.

Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a heterogeneous group of kidney cancers with clear 
cell RCC (ccRCC) as the major subgroup. To expand the number of clinically 
relevant tumor-associated antigens (TAA) that can be targeted by immunotherapy, 
we analyzed samples from 23 patients with primary ccRCC for the expression and 
immunogenicity of various TAAs. We found high-frequency expression of MAGE-A9 
and NY-ESO-1 in 36% and 55% of samples, respectively, and overexpression of 
PRAME, RAGE-1, CA-IX, Cyclin D1, ADFP, C-MET, and RGS-5 in many of the tumor 
samples. We analyzed the blood of patients with HLA-A2(+) ccRCC for the presence 
of CD8(+) T cells specific for TAA-derived HLA-A2-restricted peptides and found 
spontaneous responses to cyclin D1 in 5 of 6 patients with Cyclin D1-positive 
tumors. Cyclin D1-specific CD8(+) T cells secreted TNF-α, IFN-γ, and 
interleukin-2 (IL-2), and degranulated, indicating the presence of 
polyfunctional tumor-specific CD8(+) T cells in the blood of these patients with 
ccRCC. The high frequency (43%) of Cyclin D1 overexpression and the presence of 
functional cyclin D1-specific T cells in 83% of these patients with ccRCC 
suggest that cyclin D1 may be a target for immunotherapeutic strategies.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/2326-6066.CIR-13-0113
PMID: 24777966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Chin Med J (Engl). 2014;127(9):1666-71.

Bortezomib improves progression-free survival in multiple myeloma patients 
overexpressing preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma.

Qin Y(1), Lu J(1), Bao L(1), Zhu H(1), Li J(1), Li L(1), Lai Y(1), Shi H(1), 
Wang Y(1), Liu Y(1), Jiang B(1), Huang X(2).

Author information:
(1)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, Beijing Key Laboratory of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, 
Beijing 100044, China.
(2)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, Beijing Key Laboratory of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, 
Beijing 100044, China; Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, Peking 
University, Beijing 100871, China. Email: huangxiaojun@bjmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: Significant efforts have been made to identify factors that 
differentiate patients treated with novel therapies, such as bortezomib in 
multiple myeloma (MM). The exact expression pattern and prognostic value of the 
cancer/testis antigen preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) in MM 
are unknown and were explored in this study.
METHODS: The transcript level of PRAME was detected in bone marrow specimens 
from 100 newly diagnosed MM patients using real-time quantitative polymerase 
chain reaction, and the prognostic value of PRAME was determined through 
retrospective survival analysis. PRAME expression higher than the upper limit of 
normal bone marrow was defined as PRAME overexpression or PRAME (+).
RESULTS: Sixty-two patients (62.0%) overexpressed PRAME. PRAME overexpression 
showed no prognostic significance to either overall survival (n = 100) or 
progression-free survival (PFS, n = 96, all P > 0.05) of patients. The patients 
were also categorized according to regimens with or without bortezomib. PRAME 
overexpression tended to be associated with a lower two-year PFS rate in 
patients treated with non-bortezomib-containing regimens (53.5% vs. 76.9%, P = 
0.071). By contrast, it was not associated with the two-year PFS rate in 
patients with bortezomib-containing regimens (77.5% vs. 63.9%, P > 0.05). When 
the patients were categorized into PRAME (+) and PRAME (-) groups, treatment 
with bortezomibcontaining regimens predicted a higher two-year PFS rate in PRAME 
(+) patients (77.5% vs. 53.5%, P = 0.027) but showed no significant effect on 
two-year PFS rate in PRAME (-) patients (63.9% vs. 76.9%, P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: PRAME overexpression might be an adverse prognostic factor of PFS in 
MM patients treated with non-bortezomib-containing regimens. Bortezomib improves 
PFS in patients overexpressing PRAME.

PMID: 24791872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Int J Hematol. 2014 Jul;100(1):88-95. doi: 10.1007/s12185-014-1593-z. Epub
2014  May 13.

Prognostic significance of PRAME expression based on immunohistochemistry for 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma patients treated with R-CHOP therapy.

Mitsuhashi K(1), Masuda A, Wang YH, Shiseki M, Motoji T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Tokyo Women's Medical University, 8-1 Kawada-cho, 
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 162-8666, Japan, kmitsuhashi@twmu.ac.jp.

The preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME), a tumor-associated 
antigen, is considered a prognostic marker for various human malignancies. The 
prognostic significance of PRAME expression for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma 
(DLBCL) patients treated with rituximab-containing chemotherapy has not been 
evaluated to date, and the ability of immunohistochemistry (IHC) to detect PRAME 
expression in these patients has not yet been studied, although IHC is simple to 
perform in clinical practice. We evaluated the prognostic significance of PRAME 
expression based on IHC analysis in 160 DLBCL patients treated with R-CHOP 
therapy. There was a significant association between higher PRAME expression and 
shorter progression-free survival (PFS), and a trend toward shorter overall 
survival (OS) in patients with higher PRAME expression than that in patients 
with lower PRAME expression (5-year PFS, 48.1 vs. 61.1 %; 5-year OS, 65.6 vs. 
79.1 %). Patients with high PRAME expression tended to have lower 
chemotherapeutic responses. Thus, IHC is useful for detecting and assessing 
PRAME expression in DLBCL. Further, we found a positive correlation between IHC 
and quantitative real-time RT-PCR measurements of PRAME expression. Our findings 
indicate that IHC results of PRAME expression can be a novel prognostic maker in 
DLBCL patients treated with R-CHOP therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s12185-014-1593-z
PMID: 24820636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2014 Oct;63(10):1047-60. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-014-1574-3. Epub 2014 Jun 28.

Common Ewing sarcoma-associated antigens fail to induce natural T cell responses 
in both patients and healthy individuals.

Altvater B(1), Kailayangiri S, Theimann N, Ahlmann M, Farwick N, Chen C, 
Pscherer S, Neumann I, Mrachatz G, Hansmeier A, Hardes J, Gosheger G, Juergens 
H, Rossig C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Children's 
Hospital Muenster, Albert-Schweitzer Campus 1, 48149, Münster, Germany.

Disseminated or relapsed Ewing sarcoma (EwS) has remained fatal in the majority 
of patients. A promising approach to preventing relapse after conventional 
therapy is to establish tumor antigen-specific immune control. Efficient and 
specific T cell memory against the tumor depends on the expansion of rare T 
cells with native specificity against target antigens overexpressed by the 
tumor. Candidate antigens in EwS include six-transmembrane epithelial antigen of 
the prostate-1 (STEAP1), and the human cancer/testis antigens X-antigen family 
member 1 (XAGE1) and preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME). Here, 
we screened normal donors and EwS patients for the presence of circulating T 
cells reactive with overlapping peptide libraries of these antigens by IFN-γ 
Elispot analysis. The majority of 22 healthy donors lacked detectable memory T 
cell responses against STEAP1, XAGE1 and PRAME. Moreover, ex vivo detection of T 
cells specific for these antigens in both blood and bone marrow were limited to 
a minority of EwS patients and required nonspecific T cell prestimulation. 
Cytotoxic T cells specific for the tumor-associated antigens were efficiently 
and reliably generated by in vitro priming using professional antigen-presenting 
cells and optimized cytokine stimulation; however, these T cells failed to 
interact with native antigen processed by target cells and with EwS cells 
expressing the antigen. We conclude that EwS-associated antigens fail to induce 
efficient T cell receptor (TCR)-mediated antitumor immune responses even under 
optimized conditions. Strategies based on TCR engineering could provide a more 
effective means to manipulating T cell immunity toward targeted elimination of 
tumor cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-014-1574-3
PMID: 24973179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Eur Urol. 2015 Jan;67(1):17-20. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2014.06.041. Epub 2014
Jul  10.

A multigene assay identifying distinct prognostic subtypes of clear cell renal 
cell carcinoma with differential response to tyrosine kinase inhibition.

Choudhury Y(1), Wei X(1), Chu YH(2), Ng LG(3), Tan HS(4), Koh V(3), Thike AA(3), 
Poon E(4), Ng QS(4), Toh CK(4), Kanesvaran R(4), Tan PH(3), Tan MH(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, Republic of Singapore.
(2)Institute of Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, Republic of Singapore; 
National Taiwan University, Republic of China (Taiwan).
(3)Singapore General Hospital, Republic of Singapore.
(4)National Cancer Centre Singapore, Republic of Singapore.
(5)Institute of Bioengineering and Nanotechnology, Republic of Singapore; 
National Cancer Centre Singapore, Republic of Singapore. Electronic address: 
mhtan@ibn.a-star.edu.sg.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2015 Jan;67(1):21-2.

Patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) have divergent survival 
outcomes and therapeutic responses, which may be determined by underlying 
molecular diversity. We aimed to develop a practical molecular assay that can 
identify subtypes with differential prognosis and response to targeted therapy. 
Whole-genome expression analysis of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) 
material from 55 ccRCC patients was performed and two molecular subtypes with 
differential clinical outcomes were identified by hierarchical clustering. An 
eight-gene quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay for classification into 
two subtypes was developed for FFPE material. The primary objective was to 
assess assay performance by correlating ccRCC prognostic subtypes to 
cancer-specific survival (CSS) and, for patients receiving targeted therapy, 
radiologic response. In three validation cohorts, patients could be 
distinguished into prognostic subtypes with differential CSS (Singapore General 
Hospital FFPE cohort: n = 224; p = 1.48 × 10(-8); the Cancer Genome Atlas 
RNA-Sequencing cohort: n = 419; p = 3.06 × 10(-7); Van Andel Research Institute 
microarray cohort: n=174; p=0.00743). For 48 patients receiving tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor (TKI) treatment, the prognostic classification was associated with 
radiologic response to treatment (p = 5.96 × 10(-4)) and prolonged survival on 
TKI treatment (p=0.019). The multigene assay can classify ccRCCs into clinical 
prognostic subtypes, which may be predictive of response in patients receiving 
TKI therapy.

Copyright © 2014 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2014.06.041
PMID: 25018036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2014 Nov;63(11):1151-62. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-014-1588-x. Epub 2014 Jul 31.

Functional autoantibodies against SSX-2 and NY-ESO-1 in multiple myeloma 
patients after allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

Luetkens T(1), Kobold S, Cao Y, Ristic M, Schilling G, Tams S, Bartels BM, 
Templin J, Bartels K, Hildebrandt Y, Yousef S, Marx A, Haag F, Bokemeyer C, 
Kröger N, Atanackovic D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II, Oncology/Hematology/Bone Marrow 
Transplantation with the Section Pneumology, University Cancer Center Hamburg 
(Hubertus Wald Tumorzentrum), University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Martinistr. 52, 20246, Hamburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Multiple myeloma (MM) is the malignancy with the most frequent 
expression of the highly immunogenic cancer-testis antigens (CTA), and we have 
performed the first analysis of longitudinal expression, immunological 
properties, and fine specificity of CTA-specific antibody responses in MM.
METHODS: Frequency and characteristics of antibody responses against 
cancer-testis antigens MAGE-A3, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, and SSX-2 were analyzed using 
peripheral blood (N = 1094) and bone marrow (N = 200) plasma samples from 194 MM 
patients.
RESULTS: We found that antibody responses against CTA were surprisingly rare, 
only 2.6 and 3.1 % of patients evidenced NY-ESO-1- and SSX-2-specific 
antibodies, respectively. NY-ESO-1-specific responses were observed during 
disease progression, while anti-SSX-2 antibodies appeared after allogeneic stem 
cell transplantation and persisted during clinical remission. We found that 
NY-ESO-1- and SSX-2-specific antibodies were both capable of activating 
complement and increasing CTA uptake by antigen-presenting cells. SSX-2-specific 
antibodies were restricted to IgG3, NY-ESO-1 responses to IgG1 and IgG3. 
Remarkably, NY-ESO-1-positive sera recognized various non-contiguous regions, 
while SSX-2-specific responses were directed against a single 6mer epitope, 
SSX-2(85-90).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that primary autoantibodies against intracellular 
MM-specific tumor antigens SSX-2 and NY-ESO-1 are rare but functional. While 
their contribution to disease control still remains unclear, our data 
demonstrate their theoretic ability to affect cellular anti-tumor immunity by 
formation and uptake of mono- and polyvalent immune complexes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-014-1588-x
PMID: 25078248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 4;9(8):e102949. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0102949. 
eCollection 2014.

Differences in gene expression between mouse and human for dynamically regulated 
genes in early embryo.

Madissoon E(1), Töhönen V(2), Vesterlund L(1), Katayama S(1), Unneberg P(3), 
Inzunza J(1), Hovatta O(4), Kere J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition; Center for Biosciences, Karolinska 
Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden.
(2)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition; Center for Biosciences, Karolinska 
Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Science for Life 
Laboratory, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Karolinska Institute, Department of Clinical Science, Intervention and 
Technology, Karolinska University Hospital K57, Stockholm.
(5)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition; Center for Biosciences, Karolinska 
Institutet, Huddinge, Sweden; Molecular Neurology Program, Research Programs 
Unit, University of Helsinki, and Folkhälsan Institute of Genetics, Helsinki, 
Finland.

Infertility is a worldwide concern that can be treated with in vitro 
fertilization (IVF). Improvements in IVF and infertility treatment depend 
largely on better understanding of the molecular mechanisms for human 
preimplantation development. Several large-scale studies have been conducted to 
identify gene expression patterns for the first five days of human development, 
and many functional studies utilize mouse as a model system. We have identified 
genes of possible importance for this time period by analyzing human microarray 
data and available data from online databases. We selected 70 candidate genes 
for human preimplantation development and investigated their expression in the 
early mouse development from oocyte to the 8-cell stage. Maternally loaded genes 
expectedly decreased in expression during development both in human and mouse. 
We discovered that 25 significantly upregulated genes after fertilization in 
human included 13 genes whose orthologs in mouse behaved differently and 
mimicked the expression profile of maternally expressed genes. Our findings 
highlight many significant differences in gene expression patterns during mouse 
and human preimplantation development. We also describe four cancer-testis 
antigen families that are also highly expressed in human embryos: PRAME, SSX, 
GAGE and MAGEA.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0102949
PMCID: PMC4121084
PMID: 25089626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


190. Blood. 2015 Jan 8;125(2):261-72. doi: 10.1182/blood-2014-09-601302. Epub
2014  Nov 13.

Boost and loss of immune responses against tumor-associated antigens in the 
course of pregnancy as a model for allogeneic immunotherapy.

Lutz M(1), Worschech A(1), Alb M(1), Gahn S(2), Bernhard L(1), Schwab M(3), 
Obermeier S(1), Einsele H(1), Kämmerer U(3), Heuschmann P(4), Klinker E(5), Otto 
C(2), Mielke S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine II.
(2)Department of Surgery.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
(4)Institute of Clinical Epidemiology and Biometry, and.
(5)Institute of Clinical Transfusion Medicine and Hemotherapy, Würzburg 
University Medical Center, Würzburg, Germany.

Donor-derived immunity against tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) may exert 
selective antileukemic activity reprieving the allogeneic recipient from 
graft-versus-host disease. As TAAs are highly expressed in placental tissues we 
hypothesized that pregnancy could drive respective immunity in healthy 
individuals. Thus, we investigated the frequency and level of immune responses 
against clinically relevant TAAs in 114 blood donors and 44 women during their 
first pregnancy. Quantitative reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction 
was employed to detect low levels of interferon-γ after primary peptide 
stimulation of CD8(+) T lymphocytes. In blood donors, primary immune responses 
of low and/or high avidity were found against WT1 (15%), MUC1 (14%), PRAME (7%), 
and HER2/neu (5%) and exerted killing functions against leukemic cells. Men had 
higher responses than women, likely due to gonadal cancer-testis-antigen 
expression. Interestingly, a history of prior delivery was not associated with 
increased responses, whereas the strongest responses during pregnancy were found 
in early trimesters to disappear after delivery. This boost and loss of 
TAA-specific immunity suggests that virtually every donor harbors the potential 
to mount antileukemic immune responses in a recipient. However, in the absence 
of the driving target and a permissive environment, they are short-lived and 
thus require supplemental strategies such as vaccination or immunomodulation to 
facilitate their persistence.

© 2015 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2014-09-601302
PMID: 25395422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Clin Cancer Res. 2015 Mar 15;21(6):1353-9. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1999.  Epub 2014 Dec 11.

Prospective validation of a new method of monitoring minimal residual disease in 
childhood acute myelogenous leukemia.

Steinbach D(1), Bader P(2), Willasch A(2), Bartholomae S(3), Debatin KM(3), 
Zimmermann M(4), Creutzig U(4), Reinhardt D(4), Gruhn B(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Ulm, Children's Hospital, Ulm, Germany. Daniel@Steinba.ch.
(2)University of Frankfurt, Children's Hospital, Frankfurt, Germany.
(3)University of Ulm, Children's Hospital, Ulm, Germany.
(4)Medical School Hannover, Children's Hospital, Hannover, Germany.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany.

PURPOSE: This study evaluated the prognostic impact of a novel, simple, and 
standardized assay for monitoring minimal residual disease (MRD) in pediatric 
acute myelogenous leukemia (AML).
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: The expression of seven leukemia-associated genes (WT1, 
PRAME, CCL23, GAGED2, MSLN, SPAG6, and ST18) was measured by TaqMan Low Density 
Arrays in 112 patients and 52 healthy controls. Patients were treated according 
to the multicenter study AML-BFM 2004. Samples were collected prospectively at 
standard time points. The laboratory that measured MRD was blinded to patient 
outcome.
RESULTS: Relapse-free survival (RFS) was 95% (N = 19; SE = 5%) if expression of 
all genes was down to normal on day 15, 63% (N = 41; SE = 8%) if expression was 
normalized on day 28, and 38% (N = 21; SE = 11%) in patients who still showed 
elevated expression on day 28. The prognostic impact of MRD remained significant 
(P = 0.002) when patients were stratified for the AML-BFM 2004 risk group. 
Multivariate analysis identified the MRD risk group and day 28 cytology as the 
only independent prognostic factors. Patients with a cytologic nonremission on 
day 28, which was confirmed by MRD, had a dismal prognosis. Only 1 out of 8 
patients survived without relapse.
CONCLUSIONS: This novel method of monitoring MRD has a strong prognostic impact 
that is independent from established risk factors in childhood AML.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-14-1999
PMID: 25501127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Exerc Immunol Rev. 2015;21:144-53.

A single bout of dynamic exercise enhances the expansion of MAGE-A4 and 
PRAME-specific cytotoxic T-cells from healthy adults.

LaVoy EC(1), Bollard CM(2), Hanley PJ(2), Blaney JW(3), O'Connor DP(1), Bosch 
JA(1)(4), Simpson RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Integrated Physiology, Department of Health and Human 
Performance, University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Program for Cell Enhancement and Technologies for Immunotherapy, Children's 
National Health System and The George Washington University, Washington D.C., 
USA.
(3)Baylor College of Medicine, Texas Children's Hospital, Center for Cell and 
Gene Therapy, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Clinical Psychology, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

The ex vivo expansion of tumor-associated-antigen (TAA)- specific cytotoxic 
T-cells (CTLs) from healthy donors for adoptive transfer to cancer patients is 
now providing additional treatment options for patients. Many studies have shown 
that adoptive transfer of expanded CTLs can reduce the risk of relapse in cancer 
patients following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). However, the 
procedure can be limited by difficulties in priming and expanding sufficient 
numbers of TAA-specific-CTLs. Because acute dynamic exercise mobilizes large 
numbers of T-cells to peripheral blood, we hypothesized that a single bout of 
exercise would augment the ex vivo expansion of TAA-specific-CTLs.We therefore 
collected lymphocytes from blood donated by healthy adults at rest and after 
brief maximal dynamic exercise. TAA-specific CTLs were expanded using autologous 
monocyte-derived-dendritic cells pulsed with melanoma-associated antigen 4 
(MAGE-A4), with preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), and with 
Wilms' tumor protein (WT-1). Post exercise, 84% of the participants had a 
greater number of CTLs specific for at least one of the three TAA.Cells expanded 
from post exercise blood yielded a greater number of MAGE-A4 and 
PRAME-specific-cells in 70% and 61% of participants, respectively. In the 
'exercise-responsive' participants (defined as participants with at least a 10% 
increase in TAA-specific-CTLs post-exercise), MAGEA4- and PRAME-specific-CTLs 
increased 3.4-fold and 6.2- fold respectively. Moreover, expanded TAA-specific 
CTLs retained their antigen-specific cytotoxic activity. No phenotype 
differences were observed between expanded cells donated at rest and 
postexercise. We conclude that exercise can enhance the ex vivo expansion of 
TAA-specific-CTLs from healthy adults without compromising cytotoxic function. 
Hence, this study has implications for immunotherapy using adoptive T-cell 
transfer of donor-derived T-cells after allogeneic HSCT.

Copyright © 2015 International Society of Exercise and Immunology. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 25826370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Ann Clin Lab Sci. 2015 Spring;45(2):121-7.

PRAME immunohistochemical staining in transient abnormal myelopoiesis and 
myeloid leukemia associated with Down syndrome.

Chisholm KM(1), Rivetta CV(2), Heerema-McKenney A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA karen.chisholm@childrens.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
CA, USA.

Transient abnormal myelopoiesis (TAM) and myeloid leukemia associated with Down 
syndrome (ML of DS) have morphologically indistinguishable blasts. TAM usually 
presents and regresses within the first three months of life. In a subset of 
patients, myelopoiesis remains abnormal, and the persistence of elevated blasts 
after 6 months is considered ML of DS. Current tools including cytogenetics and 
flow cytometry fail to distinguish blasts of TAM that will regress from blasts 
of ML of DS. One gene expression profiling study suggested PRAME expression was 
significantly increased in ML of DS compared to TAM. To further investigate this 
finding, we studied PRAME protein expression by immunohistochemistry in cases of 
TAM and ML of DS. PRAME immunoreactivity was found in blasts, dysplastic 
megakaryocytes, and fibroblasts. Four cases of TAM and fourteen cases of ML of 
DS had interpretable staining, with PRAME cytoplasmic reactivity in 
megakaryoblasts. Of the four cases of TAM, two were positive for PRAME; of the 
two patients, one had follow-up demonstrating ML of DS and the other had fully 
regressing TAM. Of the fourteen cases of ML of DS, ten had at least a subset of 
cells with positive PRAME staining, while four were negative for PRAME. In 
summary, PRAME immunoreactivity in ML of DS is largely due to the non-blast 
components, while PRAME immunoreactivity in blasts of TAM is not restricted to 
cases that progress to ML of DS.

© 2015 by the Association of Clinical Scientists, Inc.

PMID: 25887863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Int J Cancer. 2015 Nov 1;137(9):2083-92. doi: 10.1002/ijc.29583. Epub 2015
May  13.

Leukemic progenitor cells are susceptible to targeting by stimulated cytotoxic T 
cells against immunogenic leukemia-associated antigens.

Schneider V(1), Zhang L(1)(2), Rojewski M(3)(4), Fekete N(3)(4), Schrezenmeier 
H(3)(4), Erle A(3)(4), Bullinger L(1), Hofmann S(1), Götz M(1), Döhner K(1), 
Ihme S(5), Döhner H(1), Buske C(5), Feuring-Buske M(5), Greiner J(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(2)Department of Oncology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)Institute of Transfusion Medicine, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(4)Institute of Clinical Transfusion Medicine and Immunogenetics Ulm, German Red 
Cross Blood Donor Service Baden-Württemberg - Hessia, Germany.
(5)Institute of Experimental Cancer Research & Department of Internal Medicine 
III, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, Diakonie Hospital Stuttgart, Stuttgart, 
Germany.

Leukemic stem cells (LSC) might be the source for leukemic disease self-renewal 
and account for disease relapse after treatment, which makes them a critical 
target for further therapeutic options. We investigated the role of cytotoxic 
T-lymphocytes (CTL) counteracting and recognizing LSC. Leukemia-associated 
antigens (LAA) represent immunogenic structures to target LSC. We enriched the 
LSC-containing fraction of 20 AML patients and hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) of 
healthy volunteers. Using microarray analysis and qRT-PCR we detected high 
expression of several LAA in AML cells but also in LSC. PRAME (p = 0.0085), 
RHAMM (p = 0.03), WT1 (p = 0.04) and Proteinase 3 (p = 0.04) showed significant 
differential expression in LSC compared with HSC. PRAME, RHAMM and WT1 are 
furthermore also lower expressed on leukemic bulk. In contrast, Proteinase 3 
indicates a higher expression on leukemic bulk than on LSC. In colony forming 
unit (CFU) immunoassays, T cells stimulated against various LAA indicated a 
significant inhibition of CFUs in AML patient samples. The LAA PRAME, RHAMM and 
WT1 showed highest immunogenic responses with a range up to 58-83%. In a proof 
of principle xenotransplant mouse model, PRAME-stimulated CTL targeted AML stem 
cells, reflected by a delayed engraftment of leukemia (p = 0.0159). Taken 
together, we demonstrated the expression of several LAA in LSC. LAA-specific T 
cells are able to hamper LSC in immunoassays and in a mouse model, which 
suggests that immunotherapeutic approaches have the potential to target 
malignant stem cells.

© 2015 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.29583
PMID: 25912930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2015;11(8):1889-900. doi:
10.1080/21645515.2015.1035502.

DNA vaccines, electroporation and their applications in cancer treatment.

Lee SH(1), Danishmalik SN, Sin JI.

Author information:
(1)a BK21 Plus Graduate Program; Department of Microbiology ; School of 
Medicine; Kangwon National University ; Chuncheon , Gangwon-do , Korea.

Numerous animal studies and recent clinical studies have shown that 
electroporation-delivered DNA vaccines can elicit robust Ag-specific CTL 
responses and reduce disease severity. However, cancer antigens are generally 
poorly immunogenic, requiring special conditions for immune response induction. 
To date, many different approaches have been used to elicit Ag-specific CTL and 
anti-neoplastic responses to DNA vaccines against cancer. In vivo 
electroporation is one example, whereas others include DNA manipulation, 
xenogeneic antigen use, immune stimulatory molecule and immune response 
regulator application, DNA prime-boost immunization strategy use and different 
DNA delivery methods. These strategies likely increase the immunogenicity of 
cancer DNA vaccines, thereby contributing to cancer eradication. However, cancer 
cells are heterogeneous and might become CTL-resistant. Thus, understanding the 
CTL resistance mechanism(s) employed by cancer cells is critical to develop 
counter-measures for this immune escape. In this review, the use of 
electroporation as a DNA delivery method, the strategies used to enhance the 
immune responses, the cancer antigens that have been tested, and the escape 
mechanism(s) used by tumor cells are discussed, with a focus on the progress of 
clinical trials using cancer DNA vaccines.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2015.1035502
PMCID: PMC4635908
PMID: 25984993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. J Appl Toxicol. 2016 Feb;36(2):238-56. doi: 10.1002/jat.3167. Epub 2015 Jun
1.

Non-clinical safety evaluation of repeated intramuscular administration of the 
AS15 immunostimulant combined with various antigens in rabbits and cynomolgus 
monkeys.

Garçon N(1)(2), Silvano J(3), Kuper CF(4), Baudson N(5), Gérard C(5), Forster 
R(3), Segal L(5).

Author information:
(1)GSK Vaccines, 1300, Wavre, Belgium.
(2)Bioaster, 321 Avenue Jean Jaurès, 69007, Lyon, France.
(3)CiToxLAB France, 27005, Evreux, France.
(4)TNO Quality of Life, 3700, AJ Zeist, the Netherlands.
(5)GSK Vaccines, 1330 Rixensart, 1300, Wavre, Belgium.

Combination of tumor antigens with immunostimulants is a promising approach in 
cancer immunotherapy. We assessed animal model toxicity of AS15 combined with 
various tumor antigens: WT1 (rabbits), or p501, dHER2 and recPRAME (cynomolgus 
monkeys), administered in seven or 20 dose regimens versus a saline control. 
Clinical and ophthalmological examinations, followed by extensive post-mortem 
pathological examinations, were performed on all animals. Blood hematology and 
biochemistry parameters were also assessed. Antigen-specific antibody titers 
were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Additional assessments in 
monkeys included electrocardiography and immunohistochemical evaluations of the 
p501 expression pattern. Transient increases in body temperature were observed 4 
h or 24 h after injections of recPRAME + AS15 and dHER2 + AS15. Edema and 
erythema were observed up to 1 week after most injections of recPRAME + AS15 and 
all injections of dHER2 + AS15. No treatment-related effects were observed for 
electrocardiography parameters. Mean fibrinogen levels were significantly higher 
in all treated groups compared to controls, but no differences could be observed 
at the end of the treatment-free period. Transient but significant differences 
in biochemistry parameters were observed post-injection: lower albumin/globulin 
ratios (p501 + AS15), and higher bilirubin, urea and creatinine (dHER2 + AS15). 
Pathology examinations revealed significant increases in axillary lymph node 
mean weights (recPRAME + AS15) compared to controls. A 100% seroconversion rate 
was observed in all treated groups, but not in controls. p501 protein expression 
was observed in prostates of all monkeys from studies assessing p501 + AS15. 
These results suggest a favorable safety profile of the AS15-containing 
candidate vaccines, supporting the use of AS15 for clinical development of 
potential anticancer vaccines.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Journal of Applied Toxicology Published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jat.3167
PMCID: PMC5033012
PMID: 26032931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Acta Haematol. 2015;134(4):199-207. doi: 10.1159/000381533.

PRAME Expression and Its Clinical Relevance in Hodgkin's Lymphoma.

Ercolak V, Paydas S, Bagir E, Ergin M, Seydaoglu G, Celik H, Yavu B, Tanriverdi 
K, Gunaldi M, Afsar CU, Duman BB.

OBJECTIVES: Although Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) is one of the most curable cancers 
in adult patients, new targets have to be defined in cases resistant to 
traditional chemotherapy. The preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma 
(PRAME) is a cancer testis antigen and its expression is very scarce or absent 
in normal tissues. For this reason PRAME is a promising candidate for tumor 
immunotherapy. The aim of this study is to understand the correlation of PRAME 
expression with prognostic factors in HL, to determine the utility of PRAME as a 
targeted molecule for immunotherapy and to compare real-time polymerase chain 
reaction (real-time PCR) and immunohistochemistry (IHC) for the detection of 
PRAME.
METHODS: In 82 patients, PRAME was studied using real-time PCR and IHC. Data 
analyses were performed using statistical methods such as t test, Mann-Whitney U 
test, χ 2 test, Kaplan-Meier method, log-rank test and Cox regression analysis.
RESULTS: PRAME was detected in 15 (18.3%) patients using IHC and in 8 (9.8%) 
patients using real-time PCR. A correlation was found between PRAME positivity 
and higher International Prognostic Score (p = 0.039). PRAME positivity detected 
using real-time PCR was found to be correlated with shorter disease-free 
survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS, p = 0.0005).
DISCUSSION: The demonstration of PRAME especially in histiocytes and 
Reed-Sternberg cells may provide guidance for immunotherapy. Although PRAME 
positivity increases the risk for death (3.56), independent risk factors that 
affected DFS and OS occurred in advanced age and high-risk groups.
CONCLUSION: Although real-time PCR is sensitive in the detection of PRAME, IHC 
can be another useful method. Despite the need for studies conducted on larger 
patient samples, PRAME expression is considered as a poor prognostic parameter 
in HL.

DOI: 10.1159/000381533
PMID: 26044287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Immunother. 2015 Jul-Aug;38(6):229-38. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000078.

T Cells Derived From Human Melanoma Draining Lymph Nodes Mediate 
Melanoma-specific Antitumor Responses In Vitro and In Vivo in Human Melanoma 
Xenograft Model.

Zhang M(1), Graor H, Visioni A, Strohl M, Yan L, Caja K, Kim JA.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Biomedical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University †Case 
Comprehensive Cancer Center ‡Seidman Cancer Center §Division of Surgical 
Oncology, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Cleveland, OH.

It has been established in murine models that lymph nodes draining a 
progressively growing tumor contain antigen-specific T cells capable of 
mediating protective immune responses upon adoptive transfer. However, naturally 
occurring human tumor-draining lymph nodes (TDLNs) have yet to be fully 
investigated. In this study, we analyzed TDLNs from patients with stage III 
melanoma who were undergoing routine lymph node dissection. Following short-term 
(14 d) culture activation with anti-CD3/anti-CD28 microbeads and expansion in 
low concentrations of IL-2, the melanoma-draining lymph node (MDLN) cells were ∼ 
60% CD4-activated and ∼ 40% CD8-activated T cells. The activated MDLN cells 
demonstrated reactivity in response to overlapping peptides spanning the 
sequence of 4 different known melanoma antigens MAGEA1, Melan-A/MART-1, 
NY-ESO-1, and Prame/OIP4, suggesting the presence of melanoma-specific T cells. 
Coculture of activated MDLN T cells with cancer cells in vitro resulted in 
preferential apoptosis of human cancer cell lines that were cocultured with T 
cells with high degree of MHC matching. Adoptive transfer of MDLN T cells with 
high degree of MHC matching to A375 to mice-bearing human A375 melanoma 
xenografts resulted in dose-dependent improvement in survival. Although prior 
human studies have demonstrated the immune responses within melanoma 
vaccine-draining lymph nodes, this study presents evidence for the first time 
that naturally occurring human MDLN samples contain melanoma-experienced CD4 and 
CD8 T cells that can be readily cultured and expanded to mediate protective 
immune responses both in vitro and in vivo in a human melanoma xenograft model.

DOI: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000078
PMID: 26049546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. PLoS One. 2015 Jun 12;10(6):e0129297. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129297. 
eCollection 2015.

Correction: PRAME Is a Golgi-Targeted Protein That Associates with the Elongin 
BC Complex and Is Upregulated by Interferon-Gamma and Bacterial PAMPs.

Wadelin FR, Fulton J, Collins HM, Tertipis N, Bottley A, Spriggs KA, Falcone FH, 
Heery DM.

Erratum for
    PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e58052.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0129297
PMCID: PMC4467040
PMID: 26068868


200. Exp Anim. 2015;64(4):397-406. doi: 10.1538/expanim.15-0023. Epub 2015 Aug 4.

Non-Hsp genes are essential for HSF1-mediated maintenance of whole body 
homeostasis.

Hayashida N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Yamaguchi University School 
of Medicine, 1-1-1 Minami-Kogushi, Ube, Yamaguchi 755-8505, Japan.

Mammalian tissues are always exposed to diverse threats from pathological 
conditions and aging. Therefore, the molecular systems that protect the cells 
from these threats are indispensable for cell survival. A variety of diseases, 
including neurodegenerative diseases, cause intracellular damage and disturb 
homeostasis. Heat shock transcription factor 1 (HSF1) positively regulates heat 
shock protein (Hsp) and maintains the precise folding of proteins. Moreover, 
HSF1 induces the non-Hsp genes expression, and degrades damaged/misfolded 
protein. Recently, my colleagues and I revealed non-Hsp genes have more 
protective roles than Hsps at the cellular level. However, whether these 
protective systems are similarly important to cellular defense in each tissue is 
still elusive. In this study, I compared polyglutamine (polyQ) protein 
aggregations/inclusion development in each tissue of WT- and HSF1KO-Huntington's 
disease (HD) mice, and examined the expression of the eight non-Hsp HSF1 target 
genes that have a strong suppressive effect on polyQ protein aggregation. Of 
these genes, Nfatc2, Pdzk3, Cryab, Csrp2, and Prame were detected in most 
tissues, but the other genes were not. Surprisingly, the obvious effect of HSF1 
deficiency on the expression of these five genes was detected in only heart, 
spleen, and stomach. In addition, polyQ protein aggregations/inclusion was not 
detected in any tissues of WT-HD and HSF1KO-HD mice, but higher level of 
pre-aggregative polyQ protein was detected in HSF1KO-HD tissues. These results 
indicate non-Hsp genes are indispensable for the maintenance of intracellular 
homeostasis in mammalian tissues, resulting in whole body homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.15-0023
PMCID: PMC4637377
PMID: 26251235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. J Immunother. 2015 Oct;38(8):311-20. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000095.

A Comprehensive Preclinical Model Evaluating the Recombinant PRAME Antigen 
Combined With the AS15 Immunostimulant to Fight Against PRAME-expressing Tumors.

Gérard C(1), Baudson N, Ory T, Segal L, Louahed J.

Author information:
(1)GSK Vaccines, Rixensart, Belgium.

The PRAME tumor antigen is a potential target for immunotherapy. We assessed the 
immunogenicity, the antitumor activity, and the safety and the tolerability of a 
recombinant PRAME protein (recPRAME) combined with the AS15 immunostimulant 
(recPRAME+ AS15) in preclinical studies in mice and Cynomolgus monkeys. Four 
groups of 12 CB6F1 mice received 4 injections of phosphate-buffered saline 
(PBS), recPRAME, AS15, or recPRAME+AS15. Immunized mice were injected with tumor 
cells expressing PRAME (CT26-PRAME) 2 weeks or 2 months after the last 
injection. The mean tumor surface was measured twice a week. Two groups of 10 
monkeys received 7 injections of saline or recPRAME+ AS15. T-cell responses were 
measured by flow cytometry using intracellular cytokine staining (ICS). In CB6F1 
mice, repeated injections of recPRAME+ AS15 induced high PRAME-specific antibody 
titers and mostly CD4+ T cells producing cytokines. This immune response was 
long-lasting in these animals and was associated with protection against a 
challenge with PRAME-expressing tumor cells (CT26-PRAME) applied either 2 weeks 
or 2 months after the last injection; these data indicate the induction of an 
immune memory. In HLA-A02.01/HLA-DR1 transgenic mice, recPRAME+ AS15 induced 
both CD4+ and CD8+ T-cell responses, indicating that this antigen can be 
processed by the human leukocyte antigen and is potentially immunogenic in 
humans. In addition, a repeated-dose toxicity study in monkeys showed that 7 
biweekly injections of recPRAME+ AS15 were well tolerated, and induced 
PRAME-specific antibodies and T cells. In conclusion, these preclinical data 
indicate that repeated injections of the PRAME cancer immunotherapeutic are 
immunogenic and have an acceptable safety profile.

DOI: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000095
PMCID: PMC4661047
PMID: 26325375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Oncotarget. 2015 Nov 3;6(34):35770-81. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.5657.

Natural killer cells facilitate PRAME-specific T-cell reactivity against 
neuroblastoma.

Spel L(1), Boelens JJ(1)(2), van der Steen DM(3), Blokland NJ(1), van Noesel 
MM(4), Molenaar JJ(5), Heemskerk MH(3), Boes M(1)(6), Nierkens S(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Translational Immunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Pediatric Blood and Marrow Transplantation Program, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Princess Maxima Center for Pediatric Oncology, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Oncogenomics, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Pediatric Immunology, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Neuroblastoma is the most common solid tumor in children with an estimated 
5-year progression free survival of 20-40% in stage 4 disease. Neuroblastoma 
actively avoids recognition by natural killer (NK) cells and cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes (CTLs). Although immunotherapy has gained traction for neuroblastoma 
treatment, these immune escape mechanisms restrain clinical results. Therefore, 
we aimed to improve neuroblastoma immunogenicity to further the development of 
antigen-specific immunotherapy against neuroblastoma. We found that 
neuroblastoma cells significantly increase surface expression of MHC I upon 
exposure to active NK cells which thereby readily sensitize neuroblastoma cells 
for recognition by CTLs. We show that oncoprotein PRAME serves as an 
immunodominant antigen for neuroblastoma as NK-modulated neuroblastoma cells are 
recognized by PRAMESLLQHLIGL/A2-specific CTL clones. Furthermore, NK cells 
induce MHC I upregulation in neuroblastoma through contact-dependent secretion 
of IFNγ. Our results demonstrate remarkable plasticity in the peptide/MHC I 
surface expression of neuroblastoma cells, which is reversed when neuroblastoma 
cells experience innate immune attack by sensitized NK cells. These findings 
support the exploration of NK cells as adjuvant therapy to enforce 
neuroblastoma-specific CTL responses.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.5657
PMCID: PMC4742140
PMID: 26452036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


203. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Aug 1;8(8):9522-32. eCollection 2015.

Rates of MAGE-A3 and PRAME expressing tumors in FFPE tissue specimens from 
bladder cancer patients: potential targets for antigen-specific cancer 
immunotherapeutics.

Lerut E(1), Van Poppel H(2), Joniau S(2), Gruselle O(3), Coche T(3), Therasse 
P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University Hospitals Leuven Leuven, Belgium.
(2)Department of Urology, University Hospitals Leuven Leuven, Belgium.
(3)GSK Vaccines Rixensart, Belgium.
(4)Laboratoires Servier Paris, France.

INTRODUCTION: Antigen-specific active immunotherapy is an investigational 
therapeutic approach of potential interest for bladder cancer regardless of 
disease stage. Clinical development of antigen-specific immunotherapeutics 
against bladder cancer must be preceded by assessment of the expression of 
relevant genes in bladder tumors. The objectives of this study (NCT01706185) 
were to assess the rate of expression of the MAGE-A3 and PRAME genes in bladder 
tumors and to investigate the feasibility of using formalin-fixed 
paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor tissues for testing.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Archived FFPE bladder tumor specimens (any stage) were 
tested for mRNA expression of MAGE-A3 and PRAME using antigen-specific 
quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assays. Data on 
patients and tumor characteristics were obtained from hospital records to 
investigate these characteristics' possible association with the antigen 
expression.
RESULTS: Over 92% of the 156 tumors examined gave valid antigen test results. Of 
the tumors with a valid test, 46.5% were MAGE-A3-positive, 32.2% were 
PRAME-positive and 59.7% positive for at least one of them. Exploratory analyses 
of possible associations between antigen expression and patient or tumor 
characteristics did not identify clear associations between antigen expression 
and any of the variables investigated.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of tumor antigen mRNA expression by using FFPE bladder 
tissues was feasible. The rates of MAGE-A3-positive and PRAME-positive tumors 
indicate that both antigens may be interesting targets for immunotherapeutics 
against bladder cancer.

PMCID: PMC4583947
PMID: 26464715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Tumour Biol. 2016 May;37(5):6349-58. doi: 10.1007/s13277-015-4400-4. Epub
2015  Dec 2.

Diagnostic marker signature for esophageal cancer from transcriptome analysis.

Warnecke-Eberz U(1), Metzger R(2), Hölscher AH(3), Drebber U(4), Bollschweiler 
E(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Molecular Oncology, General, Visceral and Cancer Surgery, 
University Hospital of Cologne (CIO), Kerpener Straße 62, 50937, Cologne, 
Germany. ute.warnecke-eberz@uk-koeln.de.
(2)Caritasklinikum Saarbrücken, Rheinstraße 2, 66113, Saarbrücken, Germany.
(3)General, Visceral and Cancer Surgery, University Hospital of Cologne (CIO), 
Kerpener Straße 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany.
(4)Institute for Pathology, University Hospital of Cologne, Center for 
Integrated Oncology (CIO), Kerpener Straße 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany.

Esophageal cancer is often diagnosed at an advanced stage. Diagnostic markers 
are needed for achieving a cure in esophageal cancer detecting and treating 
tumor cells earlier. In patients with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma 
of the esophagus (ESCC), we profiled the gene expression of ESCC compared to 
corresponding normal biopsies for diagnostic markers by genome microarrays. 
Profiling of gene expression identified 4844 genes differentially expressed, 
2122 upregulated and 2722 downregulated in ESCC. Twenty-three overexpressed 
candidates with best scores from significance analysis have been selected for 
further analysis by TaqMan low-density array-technique using a validation cohort 
of 40 patients. The verification rate was 100 % for ESCC. Twenty-two markers 
were additionally overexpressed in adenocarcinoma of the esophagus (EAC). The 
markers significantly overexpressed already in earlier tumor stages (pT1-2) of 
both histological subtypes (n = 19) have been clustered in a "diagnostic 
signature": PLA2G7, PRAME, MMP1, MMP3, MMP12, LIlRB2, TREM2, CHST2, IGFBP2, 
IGFBP7, KCNJ8, EMILIN2, CTHRC1, EMR2, WDR72, LPCAT1, COL4A2, CCL4, and SNX10. 
The marker signature will be translated to clinical practice to prove its 
diagnostic impact. This diagnostic signature may contribute to the earlier 
detection of tumor cells, with the aim to complement clinical techniques 
resulting in the development of better detection of concepts of esophageal 
cancer for earlier therapy and more favorite prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-015-4400-4
PMID: 26631031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2016;16(5):400-14. doi: 
10.2174/1568009616666151222151818.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) and the PRAME Family of 
Leucine-Rich Repeat Proteins.

Hermes N, Kewitz S, Staege MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, Martin Luther University 
Halle-Wittenberg, Halle (S), Germany. martin.staege@medizin.uni-halle.de.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is the best characterized 
member of the PRAME family of leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteins. Mammalian 
genomes contain multiple members of the PRAME family whereas in other vertebrate 
genomes only one PRAME-like LRR protein was identified. PRAME is a cancer/testis 
antigen that is expressed at very low levels in normal adult tissues except 
testis but at high levels in a variety of cancer cells. In contrast to most 
other cancer/testis antigens, PRAME is expressed not only in solid tumors but 
also in leukemia cells. Expression of PRAME and other members of the PRAME 
family is regulated epigenetically. PRAME interacts with varying pathways that 
might be directly involved in the malignant phenotype of cancer cells. For 
instance, PRAME is able to dominantly repress retinoic acid signaling in these 
cells. On the other hand, PRAME-derived peptides can be recognized as epitopes 
by cytotoxic T cells and PRAME represents an attractive target for immunological 
treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.2174/1568009616666151222151818
PMID: 26694250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2015 Dec;19(24):4827-34.

Knockdown of PRAME enhances adriamycin-induced apoptosis in chronic myeloid 
leukemia cells.

Yan H(1), Zhao RM, Wang ZJ, Zhao FR, Wang SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Imaging, People's Hospital of Rizhao, Rizhao, China. 
lysrmyyblood@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: Leukemia is resistant to currently available chemotherapy, and new 
strategies have been proposed to improve its efficacy. Such an approach requires 
know of the mechanisms involved in the resistance and survival of leukemia 
cells. Previous studied has found that Preferentially Expressed Antigen of 
Melanoma (PRAME) is overexpressed in the leukemia cells, and knockdown of PRAME 
promoted apoptosis in leukemia K562 cells. In the present study, we investigated 
whether inhibition of PRAME could sensitize K562 cells to chemotherapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: K562 cells were treated with PRAME siRNA, and/or 
adriamycin (ADR), and cell viability and apoptosis, mRNA and protein expression 
levels were, then, evaluated. Furthermore, the efficacy of PRAME siRNA combined 
with ADR was further examined in established xenograft models.
RESULTS: PRAME suppression was sufficient to induce spontaneous apoptosis of 
K562 cells. PRAME knockdown showed antiproliferative effects and induced tumor 
regression in established K562 xenograft models. ADR showed antitumor activity 
against K562 cells, co-treatment with PRAME siRNA induced an increased apoptosis 
rate than the sum of the single-treatment rates and promoted tumor regression 
without enhanced body weight loss in the K562 xenograft models.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME is responsible for the inherent low levels of spontaneous 
apoptosis in K562 cells. The combination of PRAME siRNA with ADR induced more 
intense apoptosis compared with each single treatment. PRAME siRNA in 
combination with ADR is well tolerated and shows greater efficacy than either 
agent alone in mouse xenograft models.

PMID: 26744874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Int J Clin Exp Pathol. 2015 Nov 1;8(11):14549-55. eCollection 2015.

PRAME induces apoptosis and inhibits proliferation of leukemic cells in vitro 
and in vivo.

Xu Y(1), Yue Q(2), Wei H(3), Pan G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, People's Hospital of Linyi Shandong, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, People's Hospital of Linyi Shandong, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, People's Hospital of Zhangqiu Jinan, 
Shandong, China.

PRAME is a germinal tissue-specific gene that is expressed at high levels in 
haematological malignancies, but the physiological functions of PRAME in 
leukemia cells are unknown. It has reported that PRAME was found to be 
predominantly expressed in acute leukemias and high PRAME expression is 
correlated with a favorable prognosis in childhood acute leukemias, which 
suggested that PRAME could be involved in the regulation of cell death or 
apoptosis. In the present study, we tested a hypothesis that the PRAME gene 
plays a role in the regulation of apoptosis and proliferation of leukemia cells. 
We observed that KG-1 cells transient overexpressing the PRAME gene (when 
transfected with pcDNA3.1-PRAME plasmid) significantly induces apoptosis and 
decreases proliferation in vitro, and repression of PRAME expression by a short 
interfering RNA exhibited a increased proliferation in K562 cells in vitro and 
increases tumorigenicity of K562 leukemic cells in nude mice. Our results 
suggest that the leukemias expressing high levels of PRAME has favorable 
prognosis. PRAME may be as an attractive target for potential immunotherapy for 
acute leukemic.

PMCID: PMC4713562
PMID: 26823776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2016 Apr;73:30-40. doi:
10.1016/j.biocel.2016.01.018.  Epub 2016 Jan 28.

A transcriptional target of androgen receptor, miR-421 regulates proliferation 
and metabolism of prostate cancer cells.

Meng D(1), Yang S(1), Wan X(1), Zhang Y(1), Huang W(1), Zhao P(2), Li T(3), Wang 
L(2), Huang Y(1), Li T(4), Li Y(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Shanghai Engineering Research 
Center of Industrial Microorganisms, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(2)Center of Translational Medicine, Central Hospital of Zibo, Zibo, Shangdong 
Province, China.
(3)Department of Urology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China.
(4)Center of Translational Medicine, Central Hospital of Zibo, Zibo, Shangdong 
Province, China. Electronic address: litaozhongguo@vip.163.com.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Genetic Engineering, Shanghai Engineering Research 
Center of Industrial Microorganisms, School of Life Sciences, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: yaoli@fudan.edu.cn.

Prostate cancer is one of the most common malignancies, and microRNAs have been 
recognized to be involved in tumorigenesis of various kinds of cancer including 
prostate cancer (PCa). Androgen receptor (AR) plays a core role in prostate 
cancer progression and is responsible for regulation of numerous downstream 
targets including microRNAs. This study identified an AR-repressed microRNA, 
miR-421, in prostate cancer. Expression of miR-421 was significantly suppressed 
by androgen treatment, and correlated to AR expression in different prostate 
cancer cell lines. Furthermore, androgen-activated AR could directly bind to 
androgen responsive element (ARE) of miR-421, as predicted by bioinformatics 
resources and demonstrated by ChIP and luciferase reporter assays. In addition, 
over-expression of miR-421 markedly supressed cell viability, delayed cell 
cycle, reduced glycolysis and inhibited migration in prostate cancer cells. 
According to the result of miR-421 target genes searching, we focused on 4 genes 
NRAS, PRAME, CUL4B and PFKFB2 based on their involvement in cell proliferation, 
cell cycle progression and metabolism. The expression of these 4 downstream 
targets were significantly repressed by miR-421, and the binding sites were 
verified by luciferase assay. Additionally, we explored the expression of 
miR-421 and its target genes in human prostate cancer tissues, both in shared 
microarray data and in our own cohort. Significant differential expression and 
inverse correlation were found in PCa patients.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2016.01.018
PMID: 26827675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2016 Jun;22(6):1000-1008. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2016.02.003. Epub 2016 Feb 6.

Addition of 10-Day Decitabine to Fludarabine/Total Body Irradiation Conditioning 
is Feasible and Induces Tumor-Associated Antigen-Specific T Cell Responses.

Cruijsen M(1), Hobo W(2), van der Velden WJFM(1), Bremmers MEJ(1), Woestenenk 
R(2), Bär B(1), Falkenburg JHF(3), Kester M(3), Schaap NPM(1), Jansen J(2), 
Blijlevens NNM(1), Dolstra H(2), Huls G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Radboudumc, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Laboratory of Hematology, Radboudumc, 
Radboud Institute for Molecular Life Sciences, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Hematology, Radboudumc, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; Department 
of Laboratory Medicine, Laboratory of Hematology, Radboudumc, Radboud Institute 
for Molecular Life Sciences, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
gerwin.huls@radboudumc.nl.

Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) offers the possibility of 
curative therapy for patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS), chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML), and acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). However, 
post-HCT relapse remains a major problem, particularly in patients with 
high-risk cytogenetics and in patients who cannot tolerate consolidation 
chemotherapy (eg, due to previous toxicity). We assessed the toxicity and 
efficacy of 10-day decitabine (Dec), fludarabine (Flu), and 2 Gy total body 
irradiation (TBI) as a new conditioning regimen for allogeneic HCT in patients 
with MDS, CMML, or AML. Thirty patients were enrolled, including 11 with MDS, 2 
with CMML, and 17 with AML. Patients received 20 mg/m(2)/day Dec on days -11 to 
-2, 30 mg/m(2)/day Flu on days -4 to -2, and 2 Gy TBI on day -1, followed by 
infusion of a donor stem cell graft on day 0. Postgrafting immunosuppression 
consisted of cyclosporin A and mycophenolate mofetil. At a median follow-up of 
443 days, the overall survival was 53%, relapse incidence was 27%, and 
nonrelapse mortality was 27%. The incidence of severe acute (grade III/IV) 
graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was 27%, and that of (predominantly mild) 
chronic GVHD was 60%. Immunomonitoring studies revealed that specific CD8(+) 
T cell responses against epigenetically silenced tumor-associated antigens 
(TAAs), including cancer-testis antigens (MAGE-A1/A2/A3 and PRAME) and RHAMM, 
occurred more frequently in patients who had received Dec/Flu/TBI conditioning 
(8 of 11 patients) compared with a control group of patients who had received 
only Flu/TBI conditioning (2 of 9 patients). In summary, Dec/Flu/TBI 
conditioning proved feasible and effective and enhanced the induction of 
TAA-reactive CD8(+) T cell responses in vivo, which may contribute to disease 
control post-transplantation.

Copyright © 2016 The American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2016.02.003
PMID: 26860635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Clin Cancer Res. 2016 Mar 1;22(5):1234-42. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2071.

PRAME as an Independent Biomarker for Metastasis in Uveal Melanoma.

Field MG(1), Decatur CL(1), Kurtenbach S(1), Gezgin G(2), van der Velden PA(2), 
Jager MJ(2), Kozak KN(1), Harbour JW(3).

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center and 
Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, Florida.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center and 
Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, Florida. harbour@miami.edu.

PURPOSE: Uveal melanoma (UM) can be classified by gene expression profiling 
(GEP) into Class 1 (low metastatic risk) and Class 2 (high metastatic risk), the 
latter being strongly associated with mutational inactivation of the tumor 
suppressor BAP1. Nevertheless, a small percentage of Class 1 tumors give rise to 
metastatic disease. The purpose of this study was to identify biomarkers of 
metastasis in Class 1 tumors.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: A total of 389 consecutive patients with UM were assigned 
to Class 1 or Class 2 using a prospectively validated 12-gene prognostic 
classifier. Selected tumors were further analyzed using global GEP and single 
nucleotide polymorphism microarrays. PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma) mRNA expression was analyzed in 64 Class 1 tumors by qPCR.
RESULTS: Among Class 1 UMs, the most significant predictor of metastasis was 
PRAME mRNA expression (P = 0.0006). The 5-year actuarial rate of metastasis was 
0% for Class1(PRAME-), 38% for Class1(PRAME+), and 71% for Class 2 tumors. 
Median metastasis-free survival for Class1(PRAME+) patients was 88 months, 
compared to 32 months for Class 2 patients. Findings were validated using three 
independent datasets, including one using disomy 3 to identify low-risk UM. 
Chromosome copy number changes associated with Class1(PRAME+) tumors included 
gain of 1q, 6p, 8q, and 9q and loss of 6q and 11q. PRAME expression was 
associated with larger tumor diameter (P = 0.05) and SF3B1 mutations (P = 
0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME is an independent prognostic biomarker in UM, which 
identifies increased metastatic risk in patients with Class 1 or disomy 3 
tumors. This finding may further enhance the accuracy of prognostic testing and 
precision medicine for UM.

©2016 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-15-2071
PMCID: PMC4780366
PMID: 26933176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Dr. Harbour is the 
inventor of intellectual property used in the study and receives royalties from 
its commercialization. He is a paid consultant for Castle Biosciences, licensee 
of intellectual property presented in this article. No other authors disclosed 
any potential conflicts of interest.


211. Breast Cancer Res. 2016 Mar 9;18(1):31. doi: 10.1186/s13058-016-0692-6.

A five-gene reverse transcription-PCR assay for pre-operative classification of 
breast fibroepithelial lesions.

Tan WJ(1), Cima I(2), Choudhury Y(3), Wei X(4), Lim JC(5), Thike AA(6), Tan 
MH(7), Tan PH(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biodevices and Diagnostics, Institute of Bioengineering and 
Nanotechnology, 31 Biopolis Way, The Nanos, #04-01, Singapore, 138669, Republic 
of Singapore. wjtan@ibn.a-star.edu.sg.
(2)Division of Biodevices and Diagnostics, Institute of Bioengineering and 
Nanotechnology, 31 Biopolis Way, The Nanos, #04-01, Singapore, 138669, Republic 
of Singapore. ilcima@ibn.a-star.edu.sg.
(3)Division of Biodevices and Diagnostics, Institute of Bioengineering and 
Nanotechnology, 31 Biopolis Way, The Nanos, #04-01, Singapore, 138669, Republic 
of Singapore. yukti@ibn.a-star.edu.sg.
(4)Division of Biodevices and Diagnostics, Institute of Bioengineering and 
Nanotechnology, 31 Biopolis Way, The Nanos, #04-01, Singapore, 138669, Republic 
of Singapore. xnwei@ibn.a-star.edu.sg.
(5)Department of Pathology, Singapore General Hospital, 20 College Road, 
Academia, Level 7, Diagnostics Tower, Singapore, 169856, Republic of Singapore. 
jeffrey.lim.c.t@sgh.com.sg.
(6)Department of Pathology, Singapore General Hospital, 20 College Road, 
Academia, Level 7, Diagnostics Tower, Singapore, 169856, Republic of Singapore. 
daw.aye.aye.thike@sgh.com.sg.
(7)Division of Biodevices and Diagnostics, Institute of Bioengineering and 
Nanotechnology, 31 Biopolis Way, The Nanos, #04-01, Singapore, 138669, Republic 
of Singapore. mhtan@ibn.a-star.edu.sg.
(8)Department of Pathology, Singapore General Hospital, 20 College Road, 
Academia, Level 7, Diagnostics Tower, Singapore, 169856, Republic of Singapore. 
tan.puay.hoon@singhealth.com.sg.
(9)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, 8 College Road, Singapore, 169857, Republic 
of Singapore. tan.puay.hoon@singhealth.com.sg.

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2016 Jul 25;18(1):77.

BACKGROUND: Breast fibroepithelial lesions are biphasic tumors and include 
fibroadenomas and phyllodes tumors. Preoperative distinction between 
fibroadenomas and phyllodes tumors is pivotal to clinical management. 
Fibroadenomas are clinically benign while phyllodes tumors are more 
unpredictable in biological behavior, with potential for recurrence. 
Differentiating the tumors may be challenging when they have overlapping 
clinical and histological features especially on core biopsies. Current 
molecular and immunohistochemical techniques have a limited role in the 
diagnosis of breast fibroepithelial lesions. We aimed to develop a practical 
molecular test to aid in distinguishing fibroadenomas from phyllodes tumors in 
the pre-operative setting.
METHODS: We profiled the transcriptome of a training set of 48 formalin-fixed, 
paraffin-embedded fibroadenomas and phyllodes tumors and further designed 43 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assays to verify differentially 
expressed genes. Using machine learning to build predictive regression models, 
we selected a five-gene transcript set (ABCA8, APOD, CCL19, FN1, and PRAME) to 
discriminate between fibroadenomas and phyllodes tumors. We validated our assay 
in an independent cohort of 230 core biopsies obtained pre-operatively.
RESULTS: Overall, the assay accurately classified 92.6 % of the samples 
(AUC = 0.948, 95 % CI 0.913-0.983, p = 2.51E-19), with a sensitivity of 82.9 % 
and specificity of 94.7 %.
CONCLUSIONS: We provide a robust assay for classifying breast fibroepithelial 
lesions into fibroadenomas and phyllodes tumors, which could be a valuable tool 
in assisting pathologists in differential diagnosis of breast fibroepithelial 
lesions.

DOI: 10.1186/s13058-016-0692-6
PMCID: PMC4784364
PMID: 26961242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Am Coll Surg. 2016 Jun;222(6):1036-1043.e2. doi: 
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2015.12.047. Epub 2016 Jan 14.

Identification of Novel Oncogenic Mutations in Thyroid Cancer.

Pitt SC(1), Hernandez RA(2), Nehs MA(2), Gawande AA(2), Moore FD Jr(2), Ruan 
DT(2), Cho NL(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA; Department of Surgery, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine 
and Public Health, Madison, WI. Electronic address: pitt@surgery.wisc.edu.
(2)Department of Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Surg. 2016 Jun;222(6):1043.

BACKGROUND: Thyroid cancer patients frequently have favorable outcomes. However, 
a small subset develops aggressive disease refractory to traditional treatments. 
Therefore, we sought to characterize oncogenic mutations in thyroid cancers to 
identify novel therapeutic targets that may benefit patients with advanced, 
refractory disease.
STUDY DESIGN: Data on 239 thyroid cancer specimens collected between January 
2009 and September 2014 were obtained from the Dana Farber/Brigham and Women's 
Cancer Center. The tumors were analyzed with the OncoMap-4 or OncoPanel 
high-throughput genotyping platforms that survey up to 275 cancer genes and 91 
introns for DNA rearrangement.
RESULTS: Of the 239 thyroid cancer specimens, 128 (54%) had oncogenic mutations 
detected. These 128 tumors had 351 different mutations detected in 129 oncogenes 
or tumor suppressors. Examination of the 128 specimens demonstrated that 55% 
(n = 70) had 1 oncogenic mutation, and 45% (n = 48) had more than 1 mutation. 
The 351 oncogenic mutations were in papillary (85%), follicular (4%), medullary 
(7%), and anaplastic (4%) thyroid cancers. Analysis revealed that 2.3% (n = 3 
genes) of the somatic gene mutations were novel. These included AR (n = 1), MPL 
(n = 2), and EXT2 (n = 1), which were present in 4 different papillary thyroid 
cancer specimens. New mutations were found in an additional 13 genes known to 
have altered protein expression in thyroid cancer: BLM, CBL, CIITA, EP300, 
GSTM5, LMO2, PRAME, SBDS, SF1, TET2, TNFAIP3, XPO1, and ZRSR2.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis revealed that several previously unreported oncogenic 
gene mutations exist in thyroid cancers and may be targets for the development 
of future therapies. Further investigation into the role of these genes is 
warranted.

Copyright © 2016 American College of Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2015.12.047
PMID: 27010584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2016;20(6):1057-63.

PRAME promotes in vitro leukemia cells death by regulating S100A4/p53 signaling.

Xu Y(1), Rong LJ, Meng SL, Hou FL, Zhang JH, Pan G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, People's Hospital of Linyi, Shandong, China. 
xypgj@sina.com.

OBJECTIVE: PRAME (Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma) is a 
tumor-associated antigen recognized by immunocytes, and it induces cytotoxic T 
cell-mediated responses in melanoma. PRAME is expressed in a wide variety of 
tumors, but in contrast with most other tumor-associated antigens, it is also 
expressed in leukemias. The physiologic role of PRAME remains elusive. Recently, 
it has found PRAME could be involved in the regulation of cell death in 
leukemias, but the mechanism of the function is unclear. Here, we confirm that 
PRAME induces leukemias cell death by regulation of S100A4/p53 signaling.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The pCDNA3-PRAME plasmid and its control were transfected 
with the KG-1 cells. The pCDNA3-PRAME transfected KG-1 cells were then 
transiently transfected with S100A4 cDNA or wt-p53 siRNA. The PRAME siRNA and 
its control were transfected with the K562 cells. The PRAME siRNA transfected 
K562 cells were then transiently transfected with S100A4 siRNA or pGMp53-Lu. 
PRAME, S100A4 and P53 were detected by Western blot assay in different time 
point. Annexin V/propidium iodide and MTT methods were used to detect apoptosis 
and cell survival rate.
RESULTS: KG-1 cells overexpressing the PRAME gene significantly induces 
apoptosis and decreases proliferation in vitro, followed by down-regulation of 
S100A4 and up-regulation of p53. Up-regulation of S100A4 by S100A4 transfection 
inhibits PRAME-induced p53 up-regulation. Furthermore, up-regulation of S100A4 
by S100A4 transfection or down-regulation of p53 by p53 siRNA transfection 
reduces apoptosis and increases proliferation in vitro. Knockdown of PRAME in 
K562 cells significantly increases proliferation in vitro, followed by 
up-regulation of S100A4 and down-regulation of p53. The downregulation of S100A4 
by S100A4 siRNA transfection increased p53 expression. Furthermore, 
downregulation of S100A4 by S100A4 siRNA transfection or up-regulation of p53 by 
p53 transfection decreases proliferation in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the leukemias expressing high levels of 
PRAME has a favorable prognosis. PRAME promotes in vitro leukemia cells death by 
regulating S100A4/p53 signaling.

PMID: 27049257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Oncotarget. 2016 Jul 19;7(29):46707-46716. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.8732.

Atlas on substrate recognition subunits of CRL2 E3 ligases.

Wang S(1)(2), Xia W(1)(2), Qiu M(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Jiang F(1), Yin R(1), Xu 
L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Nanjing Medical University Affiliated Cancer 
Hospital, Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Molecular and Translational Cancer Research, 
Cancer Institute of Jiangsu Province, Nanjing, China.
(2)The Fourth Clinical College of Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, China.

The Cullin2-type ubiquitin ligases belong to the Cullin-Ring Ligase (CRL) 
family, which is a crucial determinant of proteasome-based degradation processes 
in eukaryotes. Because of the finding of von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor 
(VHL), the Cullin2-type ubiquitin ligases gain focusing in the research of many 
diseases, especially in tumors. These multisubunit enzymes are composed of the 
Ring finger protein, the Cullin2 scaffold protein, the Elongin B&C linker 
protein and the variant substrate recognition subunits (SRSs), among which the 
Cullin2 scaffold protein is the determining factor of the enzyme mechanism. 
Substrate recognition of Cullin2-type ubiquitin ligases depends on SRSs and 
results in the degradation of diseases associated substrates by intracellular 
signaling events. This review focuses on the diversity and the 
multifunctionality of SRSs in the Cullin2-type ubiquitin ligases, including VHL, 
LRR-1, FEM1b, PRAME and ZYG11. Recently, as more SRSs are being discovered and 
more aspects of substrate recognition have been illuminated, insight into the 
relationship between Cul2-dependent SRSs and substrates provides a new area for 
cancer research.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.8732
PMCID: PMC5216831
PMID: 27107416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interests.


215. Cell Div. 2016 May 23;11:7. doi: 10.1186/s13008-016-0020-7. eCollection
2016.

The structure and regulation of Cullin 2 based E3 ubiquitin ligases and their 
biological functions.

Cai W(1), Yang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA 19107 USA.

BACKGROUND: Cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes play a central role in 
targeting cellular proteins for ubiquitination-dependent protein turnover 
through 26S proteasome. Cullin-2 is a member of the Cullin family, and it serves 
as a scaffold protein for Elongin B and C, Rbx1 and various substrate 
recognition receptors to form E3 ubiquitin ligases.
MAIN BODY OF THE ABSTRACT: First, the composition, structure and the regulation 
of Cullin-2 based E3 ubiquitin ligases were introduced. Then the targets, the 
biological functions of complexes that use VHL, Lrr-1, Fem1b, Prame, Zyg-11, 
BAF250, Rack1 as substrate targeting subunits were described, and their 
involvement in diseases was discussed. A small molecule inhibitor of Cullins as 
a potential anti-cancer drug was introduced. Furthermore, proteins with VHL box 
that might bind to Cullin-2 were described. Finally, how different viral 
proteins form E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes with Cullin-2 to counter host viral 
defense were explained.
CONCLUSIONS: Cullin-2 based E3 ubiquitin ligases, using many different substrate 
recognition receptors, recognize a number of substrates and regulate their 
protein stability. These complexes play critical roles in biological processes 
and diseases such as cancer, germline differentiation and viral defense. Through 
the better understanding of their biology, we can devise and develop new 
therapeutic strategies to treat cancers, inherited diseases and viral 
infections.

DOI: 10.1186/s13008-016-0020-7
PMCID: PMC4878042
PMID: 27222660


216. Nat Genet. 2016 Jul;48(7):725-32. doi: 10.1038/ng.3581. Epub 2016 May 30.

Landscape of tumor-infiltrating T cell repertoire of human cancers.

Li B(1)(2), Li T(1)(3), Pignon JC(4), Wang B(5), Wang J(5), Shukla SA(6), Dou 
R(7), Chen Q(3), Hodi FS(8), Choueiri TK(9), Wu C(6), Hacohen N(10), Signoretti 
S(4), Liu JS(2), Liu XS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer 
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Department of Statistics, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, West China Hospital of Stomatology, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(5)School of Life Science and Technology, Tongji University, China, Shanghai, 
China.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Sixth Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.
(8)Center for ImmunoOncology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(9)Kidney Cancer Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.
(10)Center for Cancer Immunotherapy, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

We developed a computational method to infer the complementarity-determining 
region 3 (CDR3) sequences of tumor-infiltrating T cells in 9,142 RNA-seq samples 
across 29 cancer types. We identified over 600,000 CDR3 sequences, including 15% 
that were full length. CDR3 sequence length distribution and amino acid 
conservation, as well as variable gene usage, for infiltrating T cells in many 
tumors, except in brain and kidney cancers, resembled those for peripheral blood 
cells from healthy donors. We observed a strong association between T cell 
diversity and tumor mutation load, and we predicted SPAG5 and TSSK6 as putative 
immunogenic cancer/testis antigens in multiple cancers. Finally, we identified 
three potential immunogenic somatic mutations on the basis of their 
co-occurrence with CDR3 sequences. One of them, a PRAMEF4 mutation encoding 
p.Phe300Val, was predicted to result in peptide binding strongly to both MHC 
class I and class II molecules, with matched HLA types in its carriers. Our 
analyses have the potential to simultaneously identify immunogenic neoantigens 
and tumor-reactive T cell clonotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/ng.3581
PMCID: PMC5298896
PMID: 27240091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing financial interests: the authors 
declared no competing financial interest.


217. Med Sci Monit. 2016 May 31;22:1837-42. doi: 10.12659/msm.895642.

Identification of Preferentially Expressed Antigen of Melanoma as a Potential 
Tumor Suppressor in Lung Adenocarcinoma.

Huang Q(1), Li L(1), Lin Z(1), Xu W(2), Han S(1), Zhao C(1), Li L(1), Cao W(2), 
Yang X(1), Wei H(1), Xiao J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Oncology, Changzheng Hospital, The Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, China (mainland).
(2), The International Peace Maternity & Child Health Hospital of China Welfare 
Institute (IPMCH), Shanghai, China (mainland).

BACKGROUND Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is known as a 
tumor-associated antigen that is altered in a variety of malignancies, including 
lung cancer. However, the role of PRAME in lung cancer remains unclear. MATERIAL 
AND METHODS We analyzed the expression of PRAME in human lung adenocarcinomas 
and studied the function of PRAME using small interfering RNA (siRNA)-induced 
gene knockdown in lung cancer cell lines PC9 and A549. RESULTS We found that 
PRAME expression is down-regulated in lung adenocarcinomas. Knockdown of PRAME 
promoted proliferation and suppressed apoptosis of PC9 and A549 cells. 
CONCLUSIONS In line with its roles in controlling cell growth, RPAME regulates 
multiple critical cell-growth related genes, including IGF1R oncogene. IGF1R 
up-regulation contributes to increase of cell growth upon the knockdown of 
PRAME. Taken together, our results suggest that PRAME has inhibitory roles in 
lung cancer.

DOI: 10.12659/msm.895642
PMCID: PMC4913835
PMID: 27241212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Open Access Maced J Med Sci. 2015 Mar 15;3(1):57-62. doi: 
10.3889/oamjms.2015.001. Epub 2014 Dec 8.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen of Melanoma (PRAME) and Wilms' Tumor 1 (WT 1) 
Genes Expression in Childhood Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Prognostic Role and 
Correlation with Survival.

Khateeb EE(1), Morgan D(2).

Author information:
(1)Cairo University Kasr El Aini Faculty of Medicine, Clinical Pathology, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(2)Faculty of Medicine Bany Swef university, Pediatrics Department, Cairo, 
Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Acute lymphocytic leukemia (ALL) is the most common hematologic 
malignancy in children. In young children it is also largely curable, with more 
than 90% of afflicted children achieving long-term remission. PRAME 
(Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma) gene belongs to Group 3 class I 
HLA-restricted widely expressed antigens in which genes encoding widely 
expressed tumor antigens have been detected in many normal tissues as well as in 
histologically different types of tumors with no preferential expression on a 
certain type of cancer. It has been found to be expressed in a variety of cancer 
cells as leukemia & lymphoma. PRAME monitoring can be useful for detection of 
minimal residual disease and subsequent relapses particularly those leukemias in 
which specific tumor markers are unavailable. Wilms' tumor1 (WT1) gene was 
identified as a gene that plays an important role in normal kidney development 
and inactivation of its function was shown to result in the development of 
Wilms' tumors in paediatric patients. Disruption of WT1 function has been 
implicated in the formation of many different tumor types.
AIM: to study how PRAME & WT 1 genes expression patterns influence cancer 
susceptibility & prognosis.
PATIENTS & METHODS: 50 patients with denovo childhood acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia, as well as 50 age and sex matched apparently healthy volunteers were 
genotyped for PRAME and WT1 genes expression by reverse transcription polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR).
RESULTS: PRAME gene was expressed in 34 of the patients (68%) and WT1 gene was 
expressed in 26 of the patients (52%). Expression of both genes was 
significantly higher compared to controls (P < 0.0001). Analysis of relapse free 
survival among our patients revealed that patients expressing PRAME gene or WT1 
gene had better relapse free survival (p value=0.02 and 0.01 respectively). 
Relapse free survival increased significantly among patients coexpressing PRAME 
and WT 1(p value =0.001).
CONCLUSION: It is concluded that the expression of PRAME and WT1 genes are 
indicators of favorable prognosis and can be useful tools for monitoring minimal 
residual disease (MRD) in acute leukemia especially in patients without known 
genetic markers. Differential expression between acute leukemia patients and 
healthy volunteers suggests that the immunogenic antigens (PRAME and WT1) are 
potential candidates for immunotherapy in childhood acute leukemia.

DOI: 10.3889/oamjms.2015.001
PMCID: PMC4877789
PMID: 27275197


219. Oncotarget. 2016 Jul 26;7(30):47095-47110. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9903.

SOX2 is essential for in vivo reprogramming of seminoma-like TCam-2 cells to an 
embryonal carcinoma-like fate.

Nettersheim D(1), Heimsoeth A(1), Jostes S(1), Schneider S(1), Fellermeyer M(1), 
Hofmann A(2), Schorle H(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Department of Developmental Pathology, University of 
Bonn Medical School, Bonn, Germany.
(2)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn Medical School, Bonn, 
Germany.

Type II germ cell cancers (GCC) are divided into seminomas, which are highly 
similar to primordial germ cells and embryonal carcinomas (EC), often described 
as malignant counterparts to embryonic stem cells.Previously, we demonstrated 
that the development of GCCs is a highly plastic process and strongly influenced 
by the microenvironment. While orthotopic transplantation into the testis 
promotes seminomatous growth of the seminoma-like cell line TCam-2, ectopic 
xenotransplantation into the flank initiates reprogramming into an EC-like 
fate.During this reprogramming, BMP signaling is inhibited, leading to induction 
of NODAL signaling, upregulation of pluripotency factors and downregulation of 
seminoma markers, like SOX17. The pluripotency factor and EC-marker SOX2 is 
strongly induced.Here, we adressed the molecular role of SOX2 in this 
reprogramming. Using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome-editing, we established 
SOX2-deficient TCam-2 cells. Xenografting of SOX2-deficient cells into the flank 
of nude mice resulted in maintenance of a seminoma-like fate, indicated by the 
histology and expression of OCT3/4, SOX17, TFAP2C, PRDM1 and PRAME. In 
SOX2-deficient cells, BMP signaling is inhibited, but NODAL signaling is not 
activated. Thus, SOX2 appears to be downstream of BMP signaling but upstream of 
NODAL activation. So, SOX2 is an essential factor in acquiring an EC-like cell 
fate from seminomas.A small population of differentiated cells was identified 
resembling a mixed non-seminoma. Analyses of these cells revealed downregulation 
of the pluripotency and seminoma markers OCT3/4, SOX17, PRDM1 and TFAP2C. In 
contrast, the pioneer factor FOXA2 and its target genes were upregulated, 
suggesting that FOXA2 might play an important role in induction of 
non-seminomatous differentiation.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9903
PMCID: PMC5216926
PMID: 27283990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


220. Ann Hematol. 2016 Aug;95(8):1233-40. doi: 10.1007/s00277-016-2706-y. Epub
2016  Jun 14.

Minimal residual disease monitoring and preemptive immunotherapy in 
myelodysplastic syndrome after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation.

Mo XD(1), Qin YZ(1), Zhang XH(1), Xu LP(1), Wang Y(1), Yan CH(1), Chen H(1), 
Chen YH(1), Han W(1), Wang FR(1), Wang JZ(1), Liu KY(1), Huang XJ(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, No. 11 Xizhimen South Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100044, 
China.
(2)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, No. 11 Xizhimen South Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100044, 
China. huangxiaojun@bjmu.edu.cn.
(3)Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, Beijing, China. 
huangxiaojun@bjmu.edu.cn.
(4)Beijing Key Laboratory of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, Beijing, 
China. huangxiaojun@bjmu.edu.cn.

This study investigated the efficacy of minimal residual disease (MRD) 
monitoring and MRD-directed preemptive immunotherapy in high-risk 
myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) patients who received allogeneic hematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation (HSCT). MRD assessment consisted of Wilms' tumor gene 
1 (WT1) detection with PCR and leukemia-associated immunophenotypic pattern 
examination with multiparameter flow cytometry (FCM). Post-HSCT, 31 patients 
were positive for WT1, and 8, for FCM; positivity for WT1 (18.6 vs. 6.1 %, 
P = 0.040) or FCM (62.5 vs. 3.6 %, P < 0.001) indicated a higher 2-year relapse 
rate. Twenty-one patients met our combined criteria for MRD, and the presence of 
MRD was associated with a higher 2-year relapse rate (27.3 vs. 4.5 %, 
P = 0.003). Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) expression 
alone was not an appropriate MRD marker; however, it suggested that the 
MRD-positive patients may fail to respond to preemptive immunotherapy. In 
patients positive for both PRAME and MRD, the relapse rate was 60 % despite 
preemptive immunotherapy. Multivariate analysis confirmed the association 
between the increased relapse rate and positivity for both PRAME and MRD (hazard 
ratio = 42.8, P = 0.001). MRD monitoring predicted relapse in high-risk MDS 
post-HSCT patients, and PRAME- and MRD-positive patients did not benefit from 
preemptive immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-016-2706-y
PMID: 27302479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Oncotarget. 2016 Jul 19;7(29):45352-45369. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.9977.

PRAME expression and promoter hypomethylation in epithelial ovarian cancer.

Zhang W(1)(2), Barger CJ(1), Eng KH(3), Klinkebiel D(4), Link PA(5), Omilian 
A(6), Bshara W(6), Odunsi K(7)(8)(9), Karpf AR(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)Eppley Institute for Cancer Research, University of Nebraska Medical Center, 
Omaha, NE, USA.
(2)Current address: Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Roswell Park Cancer 
Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Nebraska 
Medical Center, Omaha, NE, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(7)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, 
NY, USA.
(8)Department of Immunology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(9)Center for Immunotherapy, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY, USA.
(10)Fred and Pamela Buffett Cancer Center, University of Nebraska Medical 
Center, Omaha, NE, USA.

PRAME is a cancer-testis antigen (CTA) and potential immuno-therapeutic target, 
but has not been well-studied in epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) or its high 
grade serous (HGSC) subtype. Compared to normal ovary, PRAME expression was 
significantly increased most EOC, regardless of stage and grade. Interestingly, 
PRAME mRNA expression was associated with improved survival in the HGSC subtype. 
The PRAME locus was a frequent target for copy number alterations (CNA) in HGSC 
but most changes were heterozygous losses, indicating that elevated PRAME 
expression is not typically due to CNA. In contrast, PRAME promoter DNA 
hypomethylation was very common in EOC and HGSC and correlated with increased 
PRAME expression. PRAME expression and promoter hypomethylation both correlated 
with LINE-1 hypomethylation, a biomarker of global DNA hypomethylation. 
Pharmacologic or genetic disruption of DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) enzymes 
activated PRAME expression in EOC cells. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) of PRAME in 
EOC revealed frequent, but low level, protein expression, and expression was 
confined to epithelial cells and localized to the cytoplasm. Cytoplasmic PRAME 
expression was positively associated with PRAME mRNA expression and negatively 
associated with promoter methylation, but the latter correlation was not 
statistically significant. PRAME protein expression did not correlate with EOC 
clinicopathology or survival. In summary, PRAME is frequently expressed in EOC 
at the mRNA and protein levels, and DNA methylation is a key mechanism 
regulating its expression. These data support PRAME as an immunotherapy target 
in EOC, and suggest treatment with DNMT inhibitors as a means to augment PRAME 
immunotherapy.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.9977
PMCID: PMC5216727
PMID: 27322684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


222. Oncotarget. 2016 Jul 19;7(29):46120-46126. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.10028.

Expression of tumor antigens on primary ovarian cancer cells compared to 
established ovarian cancer cell lines.

Kloudová K(1)(2), Hromádková H(1), Partlová S(1)(2), Brtnický T(3), Rob L(3), 
Bartůňková J(1), Hensler M(2), Halaška MJ(3), Špíšek R(1)(2), Fialová A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Charles University, 2nd Faculty of Medicine, 
University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Research Department, Sotio, Prague, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Charles University, 2nd Faculty of 
Medicine, University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic.

In order to select a suitable combination of cancer cell lines as an appropriate 
source of antigens for dendritic cell-based immunotherapy of ovarian cancer, we 
analyzed the expression level of 21 tumor associated antigens (BIRC5, CA125, 
CEA, DDX43, EPCAM, FOLR1, Her-2/neu, MAGE-A1, MAGE-A2, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, 
MAGE-A6, MAGE-A10, MAGE-A12, MUC-1, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, p53, TPBG, TRT, WT1) in 4 
established ovarian cancer cell lines and in primary tumor cells isolated from 
the high-grade serous epithelial ovarian cancer tissue. More than 90% of tumor 
samples expressed very high levels of CA125, FOLR1, EPCAM and MUC-1 and elevated 
levels of Her-2/neu, similarly to OVCAR-3 cell line. The combination of OV-90 
and OVCAR-3 cell lines showed the highest overlap with patients' samples in the 
TAA expression profile.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.10028
PMCID: PMC5216785
PMID: 27323861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


223. PLoS One. 2016 Jul 8;11(7):e0149640. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0149640. 
eCollection 2016.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen of Melanoma Prevents Lung Cancer Metastasis.

Huang Q(1)(2), Wei H(2), Wu Z(2), Li L(2), Yao L(1), Sun Z(2), Li L(1)(2), Lin 
Z(2), Xu W(2), Han S(2), Cao W(3), Xu Y(4), Song D(2), Yang X(2), Xiao J(2).

Author information:
(1)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, Institute of Biomedical 
Sciences, School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, 500 Dongchuan 
Road, Shanghai 200241, China.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Oncology, Changzheng Hospital, The Second Military 
Medical University, No. 415 Fengyang Road, Shanghai, 200003, China.
(3)The International Peace Maternity& Child Health Hospital of China welfare 
institute (IPMCH), Shanghai, China.
(4)Urology Department, Tenth People's Hospital of Tongji University, Shanghai, 
PR China.

Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer death worldwide. The poor 
survival rate is largely due to the extensive local invasion and metastasis. 
However, the mechanisms underlying the invasion and metastasis of lung cancer 
cells remain largely elusive. In this study, we examined the role of 
preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) in lung cancer metastasis. 
Our results show that PRAME is downregulated in lung adenocarcinoma and lung 
bone metastasis compared with normal human lung. Knockdown of PRAME decreases 
the expression of E-Cadherin and promotes the proliferation, invasion, and 
metastasis of lung cancer cells by regulating multiple critical genes, most of 
which are related to cell migration, including MMP1, CCL2, CTGF, and PLAU. 
Clinical data analysis reveals that the expression of MMP1 correlates with the 
clinical features and outcome of lung adenocarcinoma. Taken together, our data 
demonstrate that PRAME plays a role in preventing the invasion and metastasis of 
lung adenocarcinoma and novel diagnostic or therapeutic strategies can be 
developed by targeting PRAME.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0149640
PMCID: PMC4938541
PMID: 27391090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


224. Br J Cancer. 2016 Aug 9;115(4):401-2. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2016.217. Epub 2016
Jul  21.

PRAME as diagnostic marker and as regulator for cell fate decisions in germ cell 
cancers.

Neuhaus N(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Reproductive Medicine and Andrology (CeRA), University Hospital of 
Muenster, Germany.

Comment on
    Br J Cancer. 2016 Aug 9;115(4):454-64.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2016.217
PMCID: PMC4985358
PMID: 27441497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Br J Cancer. 2016 Aug 9;115(4):454-64. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2016.187. Epub 2016
Jul  21.

The cancer/testis-antigen PRAME supports the pluripotency network and represses 
somatic and germ cell differentiation programs in seminomas.

Nettersheim D(1), Arndt I(1), Sharma R(1), Riesenberg S(2), Jostes S(1), 
Schneider S(1), Hölzel M(2), Kristiansen G(3), Schorle H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Pathology, Institute of Pathology, University of 
Bonn Medical School, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(2)Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Clinical Pharmacology, University of Bonn 
Medical School, 53127 Bonn, Germany.
(3)Institute of Pathology, University of Bonn Medical School, 53127 Bonn, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Br J Cancer. 2016 Aug 9;115(4):401-2.

BACKGROUND: Cancer/testis-antigens (CTAs) are specifically expressed in human 
malignancies and testis tissue, but their molecular functions are poorly 
understood. CTAs serve as regulators of gene expression, cell cycle and 
spermatogenesis, as well as targets for immune-based therapies. The CTA PRAME is 
expressed in various cancers, antagonises retinoic acid signalling and is 
regulated by DNA methylation and histone acetylation.
METHODS: We analysed the molecular function of the CTA PRAME in primordial germ 
cells (PGC) and testicular germ cell cancers (GCC). GCCs arise from a common 
precursor lesion termed germ cell neoplasia in situ (GCNIS), which itself is 
thought to originate from a defective PGC. GCNIS cells eventually develop into 
unipotent seminomas or totipotent embryonal carcinomas (ECs), which are capable 
of differentiation into teratomas, yolk-sac tumours and choriocarcinomas.
RESULTS: PRAME is, like the master regulator of PGCs SOX17 expressed in human 
PGCs, GCNIS and seminomas but absent in ECs. shRNA-mediated knockdown of PRAME 
in seminomatous TCam-2 cells left SOX17 levels unchanged, but resulted in 
downregulation of pluripotency- and PGC-related genes (LIN28, PRDM14, ZSCAN10), 
whereas somatic and germ cell differentiation markers were upregulated. So, 
PRAME seems to act downstream of SOX17 by mediating the regulation of the germ 
cell differentiation and pluripotency programme. Endoderm differentiation is 
triggered in somatic cells by SOX17, suggesting that in PGCs, PRAME represses 
this programme and modulates SOX17 to function as a PGC-master regulator. 
Surprisingly, knockdown of PRAME in TCam-2 cells did not render the cells 
sensitive towards retinoic acid, despite the fact that PRAME has been described 
to antagonise retinoic acid signalling. Finally, we demonstrate that in 
non-seminomas PRAME expression is silenced by DNA methylation, which can be 
activated by formation of euchromatin via histone-deacetylase-inhibitors.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified the CTA PRAME as a downstream factor of SOX17 and 
LIN28 in regulating pluripotency and suppressing somatic/germ cell 
differentiation in PGC, GCNIS and seminomas.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2016.187
PMCID: PMC4985348
PMID: 27441500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Oncotarget. 2016 Sep 13;7(37):59209-59219. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.10962.

Epigenetic reprogramming and aberrant expression of PRAME are associated with 
increased metastatic risk in Class 1 and Class 2 uveal melanomas.

Field MG(1), Durante MA(1), Decatur CL(1), Tarlan B(1), Oelschlager KM(2), Stone 
JF(2), Kuznetsov J(1), Bowcock AM(3), Kurtenbach S(1), Harbour JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center and 
Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.
(2)Castle Biosciences, Inc., Friendswood, TX, USA.
(3)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: We previously identified PRAME as a biomarker for metastatic risk in 
Class 1 uveal melanomas. In this study, we sought to define a threshold value 
for positive PRAME expression (PRAME+) in a large dataset, identify factors 
associated with PRAME expression, evaluate the prognostic value of PRAME in 
Class 2 uveal melanomas, and determine whether PRAME expression is associated 
with aberrant hypomethylation of the PRAME promoter.
RESULTS: Among 678 samples analyzed by qPCR, 498 (73.5%) were PRAME- and 180 
(26.5%) were PRAME+. Class 1 tumors were more likely to be PRAME-, whereas Class 
2 tumors were more likely to be PRAME+ (P < 0.0001). PRAME expression was 
associated with shorter time to metastasis and melanoma specific mortality in 
Class 2 tumors (P = 0.01 and P = 0.02, respectively). In Class 1 tumors, PRAME 
expression was directly associated with SF3B1 mutations (P < 0.0001) and 
inversely associated with EIF1AX mutations (P = 0.004). PRAME expression was 
strongly associated with hypomethylation at 12 CpG sites near the PRAME 
promoter.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Analyses included PRAME mRNA expression, Class 1 versus 
Class 2 status, chromosomal copy number, mutation status of BAP1, EIF1AX, GNA11, 
GNAQ and SF3B1, and genomic DNA methylation status. Analyses were performed on 
555 de-identified samples from Castle Biosciences, 123 samples from our center, 
and 80 samples from the TCGA.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME is aberrantly hypomethylated and activated in Class 1 and 
Class 2 uveal melanomas and is associated with increased metastatic risk in both 
classes. Since PRAME has been successfully targeted for immunotherapy, it may 
prove to be a companion prognostic biomarker.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.10962
PMCID: PMC5312306
PMID: 27486988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Dr. Harbour is the 
inventor of intellectual property related to the gene expression profile 
technology used in the study. Drs. Harbour and Bowcock are the inventors of 
intellectual property related to the discovery of BAP1 mutations in uveal 
melanoma. Dr. Harbour is a paid consultant for Castle Biosciences, which 
licensed this intellectual property, and he receives royalties from its 
commercialization. Kristen Oelschlager and Dr. John Stone are employees and 
stockholders of Castle Biosciences. No other authors disclose a conflict of 
interest.


227. Mol Immunol. 2016 Sep;77:79-88. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2016.07.012. Epub 2016
Aug  1.

The in vitro generation of multi-tumor antigen-specific cytotoxic T cell clones: 
Candidates for leukemia adoptive immunotherapy following allogeneic stem cell 
transplantation.

Mohamed YS(1), Bashawri LA(2), Vatte C(3), Abu-Rish EY(4), Cyrus C(3), Khalaf 
WS(5), Browning MJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, College of Medicine, University of 
Dammam, PO BOX 2114, Dammam 31451, Saudi Arabia. Electronic address: 
ysmohamed@uod.edu.sa.
(2)Clinical Laboratory Department, King Fahad Hospital of the University, 
University of Dammam, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Department of Genetic Research, Institute for Research and Medical 
Consultations, University of Dammam, PO BOX-1982, Dammam-31441, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Biopharmaceutics & Clinical Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
University of Jordan, Amman, Jordan.
(5)Department of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, University of Leicester, 
Maurice Shock Medical Sciences Building, University Road, Leicester, LE1 9HN, 
UK; Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Al-Azhar 
University, Cairo, Egypt.
(6)Department of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, University of Leicester, 
Maurice Shock Medical Sciences Building, University Road, Leicester, LE1 9HN, 
UK.

Adoptive T-cell immunotherapy is a promising approach to manage and maintain 
relapse-free survival of leukemia patients, especially following allogeneic stem 
cell transplantation. Post-transplant adoptive immunotherapy using cytotoxic T 
lymphocytes (CTLs) of the donor origin provide graft-versus-tumor effects, with 
or without graft-versus-host disease. Myeloid leukemias express immunogenic 
leukemia associated antigens (LAAs); such as WT-1, PRAME, MAGE, h-TERT and 
others, most of them are able to induce specific T cell responses whenever 
associated with the proper co-stimulation. We investigated the ability of a 
LAA-expressing hybridoma cell line to induce CTL clones in PBMCs of HLA-matched 
healthy donors in vitro. The CTL clones were induced by repetitive co-culture 
with LAAs-expressing, HLA-A*0201(+) hybrid cell line, generated by fusion of 
leukemia blasts to human immortalized APC (EBV-sensitized B-lymphoblastoid cell 
line; HMy2). The induced cytotoxic T cell clones were phenotypically and 
functionally characterized by pentamer analysis, IFN-γ release ELISPOT and 
cellular cytotoxicity assays. All T cell lines showed robust peptide recognition 
and functional activity when sensitized with HLA-A*0201-restricted WT-1235-243, 
hTERT615-624 or PRAME100-108 peptides-pulsed T2 cells, in addition to partially 
HLA-matched leukemia blasts. This study demonstrates the feasibility of 
developing multi-tumor antigen-specific T cell lines in allogeneic PBMCs in 
vitro, using LAA-expressing tumor/HMy2 hybrid cell line model, for potential use 
in leukemia adoptive immunotherapy in partially matched donor-recipient setting.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molimm.2016.07.012
PMID: 27490939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. J Pathol Clin Res. 2015 Mar 16;1(3):144-59. doi: 10.1002/cjp2.16.
eCollection  2015 Jul.

Cancer-testis antigens PRAME and NY-ESO-1 correlate with tumour grade and poor 
prognosis in myxoid liposarcoma.

Iura K(1), Kohashi K(1), Hotokebuchi Y(1), Ishii T(1), Maekawa A(1), Yamada 
Y(1), Yamamoto H(1), Iwamoto Y(2), Oda Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomic Pathology Graduate School of Medical Sciences Kyushu 
University Maidashi 3-1-1 Higashi-ku Fukuoka Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery Graduate School of Medical Sciences Kyushu 
University Maidashi 3-1-1 Higashi-ku Fukuoka Japan.

Myxoid liposarcoma is the second most common liposarcoma. Although myxoid 
liposarcoma is relatively chemosensitive and thus a good candidate for 
chemotherapy, cases with relapsed or metastatic disease still have poor outcome. 
Here, we performed a gene microarray analysis to compare the gene expression 
profiles in six clinical myxoid liposarcoma samples and three normal adipose 
tissue samples, and to identify molecular biomarkers that would be useful as 
diagnostic markers or treatment targets in myxoid liposarcoma. This showed that 
the cancer-testis antigen PRAME was up-regulated in myxoid liposarcoma. We then 
performed immunohistochemical, western blotting and real-time polymerase chain 
reaction analyses to quantify the expression of PRAME and another cancer-testis 
antigen, NY-ESO-1, in clinical samples of myxoid liposarcoma (n = 93), 
dedifferentiated (n = 46), well-differentiated (n = 32) and pleomorphic 
liposarcomas (n = 14). Immunohistochemically, positivity for PRAME and NY-ESO-1 
was observed in 84/93 (90%) and 83/93 (89%) of the myxoid liposarcomas, and in 
20/46 (43%) and 3/46 (7%) of the dedifferentiated, 3/32 (9%) and 1/32 (3%) of 
the well-differentiated and 7/14 (50%) and 3/21 (21%) of the pleomorphic 
liposarcomas, respectively. High immunohistochemical expression of PRAME and/or 
NY-ESO-1 was significantly correlated with tumour diameter, the existence of 
tumour necrosis, a round-cell component of >5%, higher histological grade and 
advanced clinical stage. High PRAME and NY-ESO-1 expression correlated 
significantly with poor prognosis in a univariate analysis. The myxoid 
liposarcomas showed significantly higher protein and mRNA expression levels of 
PRAME and NY-ESO-1 (CTAG1B) than the other liposarcomas. In conclusion, PRAME 
and NY-ESO-1 (CTAG1B) were expressed in the vast majority of myxoid 
liposarcomas, and their high-level expression correlated with tumour grade and 
poor prognosis. Our results support the potential use of PRAME and NY-ESO-1 as 
ancillary parameters for differential diagnosis and as prognostic biomarkers, 
and indicate that the development of immunotherapy against these cancer-testis 
antigens in myxoid liposarcoma would be warranted.

DOI: 10.1002/cjp2.16
PMCID: PMC4939879
PMID: 27499900


229. Assay Drug Dev Technol. 2016 Aug;14(6):355-63. doi: 10.1089/adt.2016.724.

Analytical Characteristics of a Noninvasive Gene Expression Assay for Pigmented 
Skin Lesions.

Yao Z(1), Allen T(1), Oakley M(1), Samons C(1), Garrison D(1), Jansen B(1).

Author information:
(1)DermTech, Inc. , La Jolla, California.

We previously reported clinical performance of a novel noninvasive and 
quantitative PCR (qPCR)-based molecular diagnostic assay (the pigmented lesion 
assay; PLA) that differentiates primary cutaneous melanoma from benign pigmented 
skin lesions through two target gene signatures, LINC00518 (LINC) and 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME). This study focuses on 
analytical characterization of this PLA, including qPCR specificity and 
sensitivity, optimization of RNA input in qPCR to achieve a desired diagnostic 
sensitivity and specificity, and analytical performance (repeatability and 
reproducibility) of this two-gene PLA. All target qPCRs demonstrated a good 
specificity (100%) and sensitivity (with a limit of detection of 1-2 copies), 
which allows reliable detection of gene expression changes of LINC and PRAME 
between melanomas and nonmelanomas. Through normalizing RNA input in qPCR, we 
converted the traditional gene expression analyses to a binomial detection of 
gene transcripts (i.e., detected or not detected). By combining the binomial 
qPCR results of the two genes, an improved diagnostic sensitivity (raised from 
52%- 65% to 71% at 1 pg of total RNA input, and to 91% at 3 pg of total RNA 
input) was achieved. This two-gene PLA demonstrates a high repeatability and 
reproducibility (coefficient of variation <3%) and all required analytical 
performance characteristics for the commercial processing of clinical samples.

DOI: 10.1089/adt.2016.724
PMID: 27505074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Asia Pac J Clin Oncol. 2017 Oct;13(5):e212-e223. doi: 10.1111/ajco.12586.
Epub  2016 Aug 12.

Gene expression of MAGE-A3 and PRAME tumor antigens and EGFR mutational status 
in Taiwanese non-small cell lung cancer patients.

Pan SH(1)(2)(3), Su KY(4)(5)(6), Spiessens B(7), Kusuma N(7), Delahaye NF(7), 
Gruselle O(7), Myo A(7), de Creus A(7), Louahed J(7), Chang GC(8)(9)(10), Yu 
SL(4)(5)(6), Yang PC(4)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Medical Genomics and Proteomics, College of Medicine, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(2)Genome and Systems Biology Program, National Taiwan University and Academia 
Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Ph.D. Program in Translational Medicine, National Taiwan University and 
Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Center for Genomic Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences and Medical Biotechnology, College 
of Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(7)GSK Vaccines, Rixensart, Belgium.
(8)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, 
Taiwan.
(9)Division of Chest Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Taichung 
Veterans General Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(10)Faculty of Medicine, School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(12)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.

AIM: To determine the frequency of expression of the tumor-associated antigens 
(TAAs) melanoma-associated antigen A3 (MAGE-A3) and preferentially expressed 
antigen of melanoma (PRAME) and the rate of EGFR mutations in a Taiwanese 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) population including only adenocarcinomas and 
squamous cell carcinomas. Furthermore, to investigate associations between TAA 
expression and EGFR mutations and to evaluate these TAAs as prognostic markers 
for overall survival. The occurrence of single nucleotide polymorphisms in 
MAGEA3 and PRAME was also assessed.
METHODS: Archival fresh-frozen tumor tissue specimens were tested by 
quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assays to detect 
MAGE-A3 and PRAME expression. EGFR mutations were detected by mass spectroscopy 
and single nucleotide polymorphisms by gene sequencing.
RESULTS: Of the 156 adenocarcinomas examined, 3.3% expressed MAGE-A3, 32.2% 
expressed PRAME and 62.8% had EGFR mutations. Of the 128 squamous cell 
carcinomas, 29.8% expressed MAGE-A3, 59.2% expressed PRAME and 20.5% harbored 
EGFR mutations. TAA expression was similar across subgroups determined by 
patient or tumor characteristics. There was no association between TAA 
expression and EGFR mutation status and TAA expression was found not to be a 
prognostic marker for survival. Single nucleotide polymorphisms were identified, 
one of which with a possible impact on MAGE-A3 expression.
CONCLUSIONS: In this NSCLC population, expression of MAGE-A3 and PRAME was more 
frequent in squamous cell carcinomas than in adenocarcinomas tumors. EGFR 
mutations were not associated with TAA expression for either histology and were 
three times more frequent in adenocarcinomas than in squamous cell carcinomas 
tumors.

© 2016 The Authors. Asia-Pacific Journal of Clinical Oncology Published by John 
Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ajco.12586
PMID: 27519286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Thorac Oncol. 2016 Dec;11(12):2208-2217. doi: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.08.120.
Epub  2016 Aug 17.

Safety and Immunogenicity of the PRAME Cancer Immunotherapeutic in Patients with 
Resected Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: A Phase I Dose Escalation Study.

Pujol JL(1), De Pas T(2), Rittmeyer A(3), Vallières E(4), Kubisa B(5), Levchenko 
E(6), Wiesemann S(7), Masters GA(8), Shen R(9), Tjulandin SA(10), Hofmann 
HS(11), Vanhoutte N(12), Salaun B(12), Debois M(12), Jarnjak S(12), De Sousa 
Alves PM(13), Louahed J(12), Brichard VG(14), Lehmann FF(13).

Author information:
(1)Arnaud de Villeneuve Hospital, Respiratory Diseases, Thoracic Oncology Unit, 
Montpellier, France. Electronic address: jl-pujol@chu-montpellier.fr.
(2)Medical Oncology Unit of Respiratory Tract and Sarcomas, Thoracic Oncology 
Division, European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy.
(3)Immenhausen Lung Clinic, Department of Thoracic Oncology, Immenhausen, 
Germany.
(4)Swedish Cancer Institute, Division of Thoracic Surgery, Seattle, Washington.
(5)Pomeranian Medical University of Szczecin, Thoracic Surgery and 
Transplantation Department, Szczecin-Zdunowo, Poland.
(6)N.N. Petrov Institute of Oncology, Department of Tumor Biology, St. 
Petersburg, Russia.
(7)Freiburg University Clinic, Department of Thoracic Surgery, Freiburg, 
Germany.
(8)Christiana Care Health Services, Helen F Graham Cancer Center, Newark, 
Delaware.
(9)Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Department of Surgery, Division of General 
Thoracic Surgery, Rochester, Minnesota.
(10)Russian Cancer Research Center, Department of Clinical Pharmacology and 
Chemotherapy, Moscow, Russian Federation.
(11)Merciful Brothers Hospital, Department of Thoracic Surgery, Regensburg, 
Germany.
(12)GSK Vaccines, Rixensart, Belgium.
(13)GSK Vaccines, Rixensart, Belgium; Celyad, Mont-Saint-Guibert, Belgium.
(14)GSK Vaccines, Rixensart, Belgium; Vionova-Biosciences, Lasne, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: Adjuvant platinum-based chemotherapy is standard treatment for 
surgically resected stage II to IIIA NSCLC, but the relapse rate is high. The 
preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) tumor antigen is expressed 
in two-thirds of NSCLC and offers an attractive target for antigen-specific 
immunization. A phase I dose escalation study assessed the safety and 
immunogenicity of a PRAME immunotherapeutic consisting of recombinant PRAME plus 
proprietary immunostimulant AS15 in patients with surgically resected NSCLC 
(NCT01159964).
METHODS: Patients with PRAME-positive resected stage IB to IIIA NSCLC were 
enrolled in three consecutive cohorts to receive up to 13 injections of PRAME 
immunotherapeutic (recombinant PRAME protein dose of 20 μg, 100 μg, or 500 μg, 
with a fixed dose of AS15). Adverse events, predefined dose-limiting toxicity, 
and the anti-PRAME humoral response (measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay) were coprimary end points. Anti-PRAME cellular responses were assessed.
RESULTS: A total of 60 patients were treated (18 received 20 μg of PRAME, 18 
received 100 μg of PRAME, and 24 received 500 μg of PRAME). No dose-limiting 
toxicity was reported. Adverse events considered by the investigator to be 
causally related to treatment were grade 1 or 2, and most were injection site 
reactions or fever. All patients had detectable anti-PRAME antibodies after four 
immunizations. The percentages of patients with PRAME-specific CD4-positive T 
cells were higher at the dose of 500 μg compared with lower doses. No predefined 
CD8-positive T-cell responses were detected.
CONCLUSION: The PRAME immunotherapeutic had an acceptable safety profile. All 
patients had anti-PRAME humoral responses that were not dose related, and 80% of 
those treated at the highest dose showed a cellular immune response. The dose of 
500 μg was selected. However, further development was stopped after negative 
results with a similar immunotherapeutic in patients with NSCLC.

Copyright © 2016 International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtho.2016.08.120
PMID: 27544054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Immunol Invest. 2016 Oct;45(7):619-40. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2016.1197241.
Epub  2016 Sep 7.

Cancer/Testis Antigens: Expression, Regulation, Tumor Invasion, and Use in 
Immunotherapy of Cancers.

Salmaninejad A(1)(2), Zamani MR(3)(4), Pourvahedi M(5), Golchehre Z(6), Hosseini 
Bereshneh A(6), Rezaei N(3)(4)(7).

Author information:
(1)a Student Research Committee, Medical Genetics Research Center , Mashhad 
University of Medical Sciences , Mashhad , Iran.
(2)b Cancer Immunology Project (CIP) , Universal Scientific Education and 
Research Network (USERN) , Mashhad , Iran.
(3)c Department of Immunology, School of Medicine , Tehran University of Medical 
Sciences , Tehran , Iran.
(4)d Network of Immunity in Infection, Autoimmunity and Malignancy (NIIMA) , 
Universal Scientific Education and Research Network (USERN) , Tehran , Iran.
(5)e Department of Biology , Faculty of Sciences, University of Guilan , Rasht , 
Iran.
(6)f Department of Medical Genetics, School of Medicine , Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences , Tehran Iran.
(7)g Research Center for Immunodeficiencies, Children's Medical Center , Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences , Tehran , Iran.

Cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) are named based on their expression pattern that 
is restricted in a number of normal and abnormal tissues. Tumor cells frequently 
express antigens whose expression is typically restricted to germ cells. Their 
unique expression pattern is guaranteed by precise epigenetic regulatory 
mechanisms. Because of their tumor-limited, high immunogenicity, and biased 
expression, discovery of these molecules provides unprecedented opportunities 
for further research and clinical development in the field of cancer diagnosis 
and immunotherapy. Evolving evidence reveals that a number of CTAs stimulate 
epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) and generation of cancer stem-like 
cells, intensifying metastasis, invasion, and tumorigenesis. Based on these 
features, CTAs attract attention to be considered as ideal targets for 
developing several clinical trials, many of them concentrating on CTA vaccine 
therapy. According to recent practical clinical interest, more characterizations 
of CTA regulation are identified. CTA expression has been demonstrated in a 
variety of human cancer tissues, and some of them have been found to elicit 
humoral and/or cellular immune responses in cancer patients. CTAs are brilliant 
targets for anticancer drug discovery, targeted tumor therapy, and diagnostic 
biomarkers, furthermore, valued genes in the study of immunotherapy, promoting 
tumorigenesis, and malignant progression. This review outlines and categorizes 
our current understanding of the complex and biased process of CTAs mRNA and 
protein expression in cancer, and supplies the most recent information on their 
regulation and function. Besides, a concise synopsis of the major clinical 
trials involving CTAs, as therapeutic avenues, is discussed.
ABBREVIATIONS: AIRE: autoimmune regulator; cAMP: cyclic adenosine 3',5'-cyclic 
monophosphate; CEA: carcinoembryonic antigen; CML: chronic myeloid leukemia; 
CREB: cyclicamp response element binding; CSCs: cancer stem cells; CTAs: 
cancer/testis antigens; CTL: cytotoxic T lymphocyte; DCs: dendritic cells; EMT: 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition; ERK: extracellular signal-regulated kinase; 
ESCC: esophageal squamous cell carcinoma; ETS: E26 transformation-specific; His: 
histidine; HLA: human leukocyte antigen; HNSCC: head and neck squamous cell 
carcinoma; IFN-γ: interferon-γ; IHC: Immunohistochemistry; IL-7: Interleukin7; 
MHC: major histocompatibility complex; MMP2: matrix metalloproteinase 2; mTECs: 
medullary thymus epithelial cells; MUC1: mucin 1; NSCLC: non-small cell lung 
cancer; PRAME: preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma; RDA: 
representational difference analysis; SEREX: serological analysis of cDNA 
expression; SSX: synovial sarcoma X chromosome; TAAs: tumor-associated antigens; 
TCR: T-cell receptor; TCGA: The Cancer Genome Atlas; TGF-β: transforming growth 
factor-β.

DOI: 10.1080/08820139.2016.1197241
PMID: 27603913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Gene. 2016 Dec 5;594(1):160-164. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2016.09.016. Epub 2016
Sep  12.

PRAME is critical for breast cancer growth and metastasis.

Sun Z(1), Wu Z(1), Zhang F(2), Guo Q(3), Li L(1), Li K(4), Chen H(4), Zhao J(4), 
Song D(5), Huang Q(6), Li L(4), Xiao J(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Oncology, Changzheng Hospital, the Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, PR China.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, the 411th Hospital of PLA, Shanghai, PR China.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Oncology, Changzheng Hospital, the Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, PR China; Department of Orthopedic Oncology, 
Changzheng Hospital, the Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, PR China.
(4)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, School of Life Sciences, East 
China Normal University, Shanghai 200241, PR China.
(5)Department of Orthopedics, Shanghai Bone Tumor Institute, Shanghai General 
Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai 200080, PR 
China. Electronic address: Dianwen_Song@163.com.
(6)Department of Orthopedic Oncology, Changzheng Hospital, the Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, PR China. Electronic address: 
Quan_Huang1234@163.com.
(7)Department of Orthopedic Oncology, Changzheng Hospital, the Second Military 
Medical University, Shanghai, PR China. Electronic address: 
jianru_xiao12345@163.com.

Breast cancer is the most common cause of cancer death in women and ranks second 
among cancer deaths. Metastasis is the main cause of death in breast cancer 
patients. However, the mechanisms underlying the invasion and metastasis of 
breast cancer cells remain largely elusive. Here we report that the protein 
PRAME, a tumor-associated antigen isolated from a melanoma, plays a role in 
preventing the proliferation and metastasis of breast cancer cells. Knocking 
down of PRAME promotes breast cancer cell proliferation and inhibits apoptosis. 
In addition, inhibition of PRAME promotes the invasion of breast cancer cells. 
To further examine the role of PRAME in vivo, we utilized mouse model and found 
the volume and the weight of tumors was markedly increased after PRAME was 
knocked down. This study demonstrates that PRAME functions as a tumor suppressor 
in breast cancer.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2016.09.016
PMID: 27632898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2017 Jan;76(1):114-120.e2. doi:
10.1016/j.jaad.2016.07.038.  Epub 2016 Oct 1.

Development and validation of a noninvasive 2-gene molecular assay for cutaneous 
melanoma.

Gerami P(1), Yao Z(2), Polsky D(3), Jansen B(2), Busam K(4), Ho J(5), Martini 
M(6), Ferris LK(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois. 
Electronic address: pgerami1@nm.org.
(2)DermTech Inc, La Jolla, California.
(3)Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University School of 
Medicine, New York University Langone Medical Center, New York, New York; Ronald 
O. Perelman Department of Pathology, New York University School of Medicine, New 
York University Langone Medical Center, New York, New York.
(4)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York.
(5)Department of Dermatology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.
(6)Department of Dermatology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.

BACKGROUND: Clinical and histopathologic assessment of pigmented skin lesions 
remains challenging even for experts. Differentiated and accurate noninvasive 
diagnostic modalities are highly desirable.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to provide clinicians with such a tool.
METHODS: A 2-gene classification method based on LINC00518 and preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) gene expression was evaluated and 
validated in 555 pigmented lesions (157 training and 398 validation samples) 
obtained noninvasively via adhesive patch biopsy. Results were compared with 
standard histopathologic assessment in lesions with a consensus diagnosis among 
3 experienced dermatopathologists.
RESULTS: In 398 validation samples (87 melanomas and 311 nonmelanomas), 
LINC00518 and/or PRAME detection appropriately differentiated melanoma from 
nonmelanoma samples with a sensitivity of 91% and a specificity of 69%. We 
established LINC00518 and PRAME in both adhesive patch melanoma samples 
and underlying formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) samples of surgically 
excised primary melanomas and in melanoma lymph node metastases.
LIMITATIONS: This technology cannot be used on mucous membranes, palms of hands, 
and soles of feet.
CONCLUSIONS: This noninvasive 2-gene pigmented lesion assay classifies pigmented 
lesions into melanoma and nonmelanoma groups and may serve as a tool to help 
with diagnostic challenges that may be inherently linked to the visual image and 
pattern recognition approach.

Copyright © 2016 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2016.07.038
PMCID: PMC5599145
PMID: 27707590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Melanoma Res. 2017 Feb;27(1):8-16. doi: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000308.

Inhibitor of vasculogenic mimicry restores sensitivity of resistant melanoma 
cells to DNA-damaging agents.

Vartanian A(1), Baryshnikova M, Burova O, Afanasyeva D, Misyurin V, Belyаvsky A, 
Shprakh Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Diagnosis and Therapy of Tumors, N.N. Blokhin 
Russian Cancer Research Center, Moscow, Russia.

The increasing incidence of melanoma makes this cancer an important public 
health problem. Therapeutic resistance is still a major obstacle to the therapy 
of patients with metastatic melanomas. The aim of this study was to develop the 
melanoma cell line resistant to DNA-alkylating agents and to elucidate the 
mechanisms involved in acquired drug resistance. We established a unique 
melanoma subline Mel MeR resistant to DNA-alkylating drug aranoza by continuous 
stepwise selection of the Mel Me/WT cell line with increasing concentrations of 
this drug. Mel MeR cells were also cross-resistant to streptozotocin or 
cisplatin. Here, we show that aranoza-resistant melanoma cells modulate the ABC 
transporter activity, upregulate the expression of PRAME, adopt a 
vascular-related phenotype and engage in vasculogenic mimicry. LCS1269, a 
vasculogenic mimicry low-molecular-weight inhibitor, reverses the sensitivity of 
resistant melanoma cells to DNA-damaging agents. In this study, we provide 
experimental evidence that LCS1269 might be considered as a new potential 
anticancer agent capable of overcoming multidrug resistance for DNA-damaging 
agents in melanoma.

DOI: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000308
PMID: 27776018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Lung Cancer. 2016 Nov;101:137-144. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.09.006. Epub
2016  Oct 5.

The prevalence of expression of MAGE-A3 and PRAME tumor antigens in East and 
South East Asian non-small cell lung cancer patients.

Thongprasert S(1), Yang PC(2), Lee JS(3), Soo R(4), Gruselle O(5), Myo A(6), 
Louahed J(7), Lehmann FF(8), Brichard VG(9), Coche T(10).

Author information:
(1)Wattanosoth Hospital and Bangkok Chiang Mai Hospital, Thanuspong Soi 8, 
Mueang Chiang Mai District, Chiang Mai 50000, Thailand. Electronic address: 
sthongpr@mail.med.cmu.ac.th.
(2)National Taiwan University, 1, Sec. 4, Roosevelt Rd., Taipei 106, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: pcyang@ntu.edu.tw.
(3)Asan Medical Center, 88 Olympic-ro 43-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul 05505, South 
Korea. Electronic address: jayslee@amc.seoul.kr.
(4)National University Cancer Institute, Singapore 119074, Singapore. Electronic 
address: ross_soo@nuhs.edu.sg.
(5)GSK, Rue de l'Institut 89, Rixensart 1330, Belgium. Electronic address: 
olivier.gruselle@gsk.com.
(6)GSK, Rue de l'Institut 89, Rixensart 1330, Belgium. Electronic address: 
myo.aung@merck.com.
(7)GSK, Rue de l'Institut 89, Rixensart 1330, Belgium. Electronic address: 
jamila.x.louahed@gsk.com.
(8)GSK, Rue de l'Institut 89, Rixensart 1330, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Lehmann.frederic@gmail.com.
(9)GSK, Rue de l'Institut 89, Rixensart 1330, Belgium. Electronic address: 
vincent.brichard@vianova-biosciences.com.
(10)GSK, Rue de l'Institut 89, Rixensart 1330, Belgium. Electronic address: 
Thierry3103@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is an important 
and often unmet medical need regardless of the disease stage at the time of 
first diagnosis. Antigen-specific immunotherapy may be a feasible therapeutic 
option if tumor associated antigens (TAAs) that can be targeted by the patient's 
immune system are identified. The study objective (NCT01837511) was to 
investigate the expression rates of MAGE-A3 and PRAME in tumors from East Asian 
NSCLC patients, and the associations between TAA expression and 
clinico-pathologic patient characteristics.
METHODS: Archived formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor tissue specimens were 
tested for MAGE-A3 and PRAME expression by quantitative reverse transcription 
polymerase chain reaction. Exploratory analyses of the impact of patient and 
tumor characteristics on antigen expression were performed by multivariate 
logistic regression analyses.
RESULTS: A total of 377 specimens were tested and a valid expression result was 
obtained for 86.5% and 92.6% for MAGE-A3 and PRAME, respectively. Of the 
specimens with valid test results, 26.4% expressed MAGE-A3, 49.9% PRAME, 20.0% 
both and 57.5% expressed at least one TAA. The same pattern of associations 
between antigen expression and patient and tumor characteristics was found for 
both TAAs: higher rates of antigen-positive tumors were found in squamous cell 
carcinomas compared to adenocarcinomas, and for smokers compared to non-smokers.
CONCLUSIONS: Expression of MAGE-A3 and PRAME suggests an association with tumor 
histology and the patient's smoking status. The rates of TAA-positive tumors 
found in these East and South East Asian NSCLC patients indicate that both 
antigens may serve as targets for antigen-specific immunotherapies.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2016.09.006
PMID: 27794402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. ESMO Open. 2016 Aug 8;1(4):e000068. doi: 10.1136/esmoopen-2016-000068. 
eCollection 2016.

Safety and immunogenicity of the PRAME cancer immunotherapeutic in metastatic 
melanoma: results of a phase I dose escalation study.

Gutzmer R(1), Rivoltini L(2), Levchenko E(3), Testori A(4), Utikal J(5), 
Ascierto PA(6), Demidov L(7), Grob JJ(8), Ridolfi R(9), Schadendorf D(10), 
Queirolo P(11), Santoro A(12), Loquai C(13), Dreno B(14), Hauschild A(15), 
Schultz E(16), Lesimple TP(17), Vanhoutte N(18), Salaun B(18), Gillet M(18), 
Jarnjak S(18), De Sousa Alves PM(19), Louahed J(18), Brichard VG(20), Lehmann 
FF(19).

Author information:
(1)Skin Cancer Center Hannover , Hannover Medical School , Hannover , Germany.
(2)Unit of Immunotherapy of Human Tumors , Fondazione RCCS Istituto Nazionale 
dei Tumori , Milan , Italy.
(3)Petrov Research Institute of Oncology , St. Petersburg , Russia.
(4)Istituto Europeo Di Oncologia , Milano , Italy.
(5)Skin Cancer Unit, German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany; 
Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, University Medical 
Center Mannheim, Ruprecht-Karl University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany.
(6)Melanoma, Cancer Immunotherapy and Innovative Therapies Unit , Istituto 
Nazionale Tumori Fondazione Pascale , Naples , Italy.
(7)Cancer Research Center , Moscow , Russia.
(8)Aix Marseille University Hôpital de la Timone, Service de Dermatologie , 
Marseille , France.
(9)Immunotherapy Unit , Romagna Cancer Institute IRST- IRCCS , Meldola , Italy.
(10)Department of Dermatology , University Hospital Essen , Essen , Germany.
(11)Istituto Nazionale per la Ricerca sul Cancro Oncologia Medica , Genova , 
Italy.
(12)Humanitas Cancer Center, Istituto Clinico Humanitas IRCCS , Rozzano , Italy.
(13)Department of Dermatology , University of Mainz , Mainz , Germany.
(14)Dermatology Clinic , Hôpital Hôtel-Dieu, CHU Nantes , Nantes , France.
(15)Department of Dermatology , Skin Cancer Center, Schleswig-Holstein 
University Hospital , Kiel , Germany.
(16)Department of Dermatology , Paracelsus Medical University, Klinikum 
Nuremberg , Nuremberg , Germany.
(17)Département d'Oncologie Médicale , Centre Eugène Marquis , Rennes , France.
(18)GSK Vaccines , Rixensart , Belgium.
(19)GSK Vaccines, Rixensart, Belgium; Celyad, Mont-Saint-Guibert, Rixensart, 
Belgium.
(20)GSK Vaccines, Rixensart, Belgium; Vianova-Biosciences, Lasne, Belgium.

PURPOSE: The PRAME tumour antigen is expressed in several tumour types but in 
few normal adult tissues. A dose-escalation phase I/II study (NCT01149343) 
assessed the safety, immunogenicity and clinical activity of the PRAME 
immunotherapeutic (recombinant PRAME protein (recPRAME) with the AS15 
immunostimulant) in patients with advanced melanoma. Here, we report the phase I 
dose-escalation study segment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with stage IV PRAME-positive melanoma were 
enrolled to 3 consecutive cohorts to receive up to 24 intramuscular injections 
of the PRAME immunotherapeutic. The RecPRAME dose was 20, 100 or 500 µg in 
cohorts 1, 2 and 3, respectively, with a fixed dose of AS15. Adverse events 
(AEs), including predefined dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) and the anti-PRAME 
humoral response (ELISA), were coprimary end points. Cellular immune responses 
were evaluated using in vitro assays.
RESULTS: 66 patients were treated (20, 24 and 22 in the respective cohorts). AEs 
considered by the investigator to be causally related were mostly grade 1 or 2 
injection site symptoms, fatigue, chills, fever and headache. Two DLTs (grade 3 
brain oedema and proteinuria) were recorded in two patients in two cohorts 
(cohorts 2 and 3). All patients had detectable anti-PRAME antibodies after four 
immunisations. Percentages of patients with predefined PRAME-specific-CD4+T-cell 
responses after four immunisations were similar in each cohort. No CD8+ T-cell 
responses were detected.
CONCLUSIONS: The PRAME immunotherapeutic had an acceptable safety profile and 
induced similar anti-PRAME-specific humoral and cellular immune responses in all 
cohorts. As per protocol, the phase II study segment was initiated to further 
evaluate the 500 µg PRAME immunotherapeutic dose.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT01149343, Results.

DOI: 10.1136/esmoopen-2016-000068
PMCID: PMC5070281
PMID: 27843625

Conflict of interest statement: Employment: MG (GSK group of companies); NV (GSK 
group of companies); BS (GSK group of companies); SJ (GSK group of companies); 
PMDeSA (GSK group of companies); FFL (GSK group of companies); JL (GSK group of 
companies); VGB (GSK group of companies). Stock Ownership: SJ (GSK group of 
companies), FFL (GSK group of companies); JL (GSK group of companies); VGB (GSK 
group of companies); PMDeSA (GSK group of companies). Honoraria: BD (Roche, GSK, 
BMS), DS (GSK, Roche, BMS, Amgen, Novartis, Merck/MSD), JJG (GSK, BMS, Roche, 
Amgen, MSD, Novartis, Meda), AT (BMS, GSK, Amgen, Roche), AH (Amgen, BMS, 
Celgene, Eisai, GSK, MedImmune, MelaSciences, Merck Serono, MSD/Merck, Novartis, 
Oncosec, Roche Pharma), RG (GSK, Roche, BMS, MSD, Novartis, Pfizer, Janssen, 
Amgen, Merck Serono, Boehringer, Almirall Hermal), JU (Roche, GSK, BMS), PA 
(BMS, Roche/Genentech, GSK, Ventana), RR (BMS, GSK), ES (Novartis, BMS, 
DermaPharm), TL (GSK, BMS, Merck, Roche). Consultant or Advisory Role: BD 
(Roche, BMS, GSK), DS (GSK, Roche, BMS, Amgen, Novartis, Merck/MSD), JJG (GSK, 
BMS, Roche, Amgen, MSD, Novartis, Meda), AT (BMS, GSK, Amgen, Roche), AH (Amgen, 
BMS, Celgene, Eisai, GSK, MedImmune, MelaSciences, Merck Serono, MSD/Merck, 
Novartis, Oncosec, Roche Pharma), RG (GSK, BMS, Roche, Novartis, Almirall 
Hermal, MSD, Amgen), JU (Roche, GSK), PA (BMS, Roche/Genentech, MSD, GSK, 
Ventana, Novartis, Amgen), PQ (GSK, Roche, Bristol, MSD), CL (Roche, BMS, MSD), 
ES (BMS). Speakers’ Bureau: DS (GSK; Roche, BMS, Amgen, Novartis, Merck/MSD), 
JJG (GSK), RG (GSK), JU (Roche), CL (Roche, BMS, MSD, Leo), TL (GSK, Merck, 
Roche), LD (GSK, BMS, Roche, MSD). Research funding: BD (Roche, GSK), DS 
(Merck), JJG (Roche), AH (trial grants from Amgen, BMS, Celgene, Eisai, GSK, 
MelaSciences, Merck Serono, MSD/Merck, Novartis, Oncosec, Roche Pharma), RG 
(Roche, Novartis, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson), PA (BMS, Roche/Genentech, 
Ventana). Patents, royalties, other intellectual property: ES (Royalties from 
Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research for contribution to a patent on human tumor 
antigen). Travel, accommodations, expenses: BD (Roche, BMS), DS (GSK, Roche, 
BMS, Amgen, Novartis, Merck/MSD), AT (Oncovision), RG (Roche, BMS), JU (Roche, 
GSK), PQ (Roche, GSK, MSD), CL (Roche, BMS, Leo), TL (Roche). EL, LR, AS declare 
that they have no conflict of interest.


238. Leuk Res. 2017 Jan;52:43-49. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2016.11.005. Epub 2016
Nov  11.

PRAME overexpression predicted good outcome in pediatric B-cell acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia patients receiving chemotherapy.

Zhang YH(1), Lu AD(2), Yang L(1), Li LD(1), Chen WM(1), Long LY(1), Zhang LP(3), 
Qin YZ(4).

Author information:
(1)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, Beijing, China.
(2)Peking University People's Hospital, Department of Pediatrics, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Peking University People's Hospital, Department of Pediatrics, Beijing, 
China. Electronic address: zhangleping@pkuph.edu.cn.
(4)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, Beijing, China. Electronic address: qin2000@aliyun.com.

To investigate the prognostic value of PRAME expression in pediatric acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia(ALL), we measured PRAME transcript levels at diagnosis in 
191 patients(146 B-ALL; 45T-ALL)receiving chemotherapy only. PRAME 
overexpression was defined as transcript levels higher than 0.30%, which is the 
upper limit of normal bone marrow and the optimal cutoff value derived from ROC 
curve analysis. PRAME overexpression was identified in 45.5% of patients. In 
B-ALL, PRAME overexpression was significantly associated with lower 
CIR(cumulative incidence of relapse), higher DFS (disease-freesurvival), and 
OS(overall survival) rates at 3 years, respectively (5.8% vs. 14.9%, P=0.014; 
94.2% vs. 85.1%, P=0.014; 96.0% vs. 87.4%, P=0.039). PRAME overexpression had no 
impact on outcome in T-ALL patients. Among B-ALL patients with non-poor 
cytogenetic risk, those with PRAME overexpression showed significantly lower 
CIR, higher DFS and OS rates at 3 years, respectively (8.47% vs. 14.5%, P=0.009; 
96.5% vs. 85.5%, P=0.009; 98.4% vs. 88.0%, P=0.023). Furthermore, PRAME 
overexpression was an independent good prognostic factor for relapse in all 
B-ALL patients and B-ALL patients with non-poor cytogenetic risk. Therefore, the 
prognostic significance of PRAME overexpression differed by ALL subtype; It 
predicted good outcome in pediatric B-ALL receiving chemotherapy.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2016.11.005
PMID: 27875783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Hum Pathol. 2017 Mar;61:130-139. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2016.12.006. Epub
2016  Dec 16.

Cancer-testis antigen expression in synovial sarcoma: NY-ESO-1, PRAME, MAGEA4, 
and MAGEA1.

Iura K(1), Maekawa A(1), Kohashi K(2), Ishii T(1), Bekki H(1), Otsuka H(1), 
Yamada Y(2), Yamamoto H(2), Harimaya K(3), Iwamoto Y(3), Oda Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Graduate 
School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
Kyushu University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(4)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan. Electronic address: 
oda@surgpath.med.kyushu-u.ac.jp.

Synovial sarcoma (SS) is regarded as a relatively chemosensitive sarcoma, but 
the prognosis of advanced SSs remains poor. Here we identified highly expressed 
cancer-testis antigens that could be promising immunotherapy targets for SS, 
using a previously conducted cDNA microarray, and we assessed the 
clinicopathological or prognostic relationships of these antigens in SS. We 
compared the gene expression profiles of 11 SSs with those of 3 normal adipose 
tissues. Among the up-regulated cancer-testis antigens, we analyzed PRAME, 
MAGEA1, and MAGEA4 and another cancer-testis antigen (NY-ESO-1) together, by 
immunohistochemistry and real-time polymerase chain reaction in 108 SSs. 
Immunohistochemically, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, MAGEA4, and MAGEA1 were positive in 66 
(61%), 93 (86%), 89 (82%), and 16 (15%) of 108 SSs, respectively, and 104 (96%) 
of 108 SSs showed the immunohistochemical expression of at least 1 of NY-ESO-1, 
PRAME, and MAGEA4. Moreover, the high expression of at least 1 of these 3 
antigens was observed in 83% of the SSs. High expression of NY-ESO-1 and MAGEA4 
was significantly correlated with the presence of necrosis and advanced clinical 
stage. The immunohistochemical expression of these cancer-testis antigens was 
not correlated with prognosis, but the coexpression of NY-ESO-1, PRAME, and 
MAGEA4 was significantly associated with adverse prognosis. The real-time 
polymerase chain reaction results were closely related to the 
immunohistochemical results: NY-ESO-1 (P = .0019), PRAME (P = .039), MAGEA4 (P = 
.0149), and MAGEA1 (P = .0766). These data support the potential utility of 
NY-ESO-1, PRAME, and MAGEA4 as immunotherapy targets and ancillary prognostic 
parameters, suggesting the possible benefit of the combined use of these 
cancer-testis antigens as an SS immunotherapy target.

Copyright © 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2016.12.006
PMID: 27993576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Blood. 2017 Mar 2;129(9):1166-1176. doi: 10.1182/blood-2016-10-745992. Epub
2017  Jan 3.

CML patients with deep molecular responses to TKI have restored immune effectors 
and decreased PD-1 and immune suppressors.

Hughes A(1)(2)(3), Clarson J(1)(2), Tang C(1), Vidovic L(1), White DL(2)(3), 
Hughes TP(1)(2)(3), Yong AS(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, SA Pathology, Adelaide, SA, Australia.
(2)Cancer Theme, South Australia Health and Medical Research Institute, 
Adelaide, SA, Australia; and.
(3)School of Medicine, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia.

Comment in
    Blood. 2017 Mar 2;129(9):1064-1065.

Immunological control may contribute to achievement of deep molecular response 
in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients on tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) 
therapy and may promote treatment-free remission (TFR). We investigated effector 
and suppressor immune responses in CML patients at diagnosis (n = 21), on TKI 
(imatinib, nilotinib, dasatinib) before achieving major molecular response 
(pre-MMR, BCR-ABL1 >0.1%, n = 8), MMR (BCR-ABL1 ≤0.1%, n = 20), molecular 
response4.5 (MR4.5, BCR-ABL1 ≤0.0032%, n = 16), and sustained TFR (BCR-ABL1 
undetectable following cessation of TKI therapy, n = 13). Aberrant 
immune-inhibitory responses (myeloid-derived suppressor cells (MDSCs), 
regulatory T cells (Tregs), and programmed death-1 (PD-1) inhibitory molecule 
expression on CD4+/CD8+ T cells were increased in CML patients at diagnosis. 
Consequent quantitative and functional defects of innate effector natural killer 
(NK) cells and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte responses to leukemia-associated antigens 
WT1, BMI-1, PR3, and PRAME were observed at diagnosis. Treg and PD-1+CD4+/CD8+ T 
cells persisted in pre-MMR CML patients on TKI. Patients in MMR and MR4.5 had a 
more mature, cytolytic CD57+CD62L- NK cell phenotype, consistent with 
restoration of NK cell activating and inhibitory receptor repertoire to normal 
healthy donor levels. Immune responses were retained in TFR patients 
off-therapy, suggesting the restored immune control observed in MMR and MR4.5 is 
not an entirely TKI-mediated effect. Maximal restoration of immune responses 
occurred only in MR4.5, as demonstrated by increased NK cell and effector T-cell 
cytolytic function, reduced T-cell PD-1 expression and reduced numbers of 
monocytic MDSCs.

© 2017 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2016-10-745992
PMID: 28049640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2017 May;28(3):219-227. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0000000000000366.

New concepts in the molecular understanding of uveal melanoma.

Reichstein D(1).

Author information:
(1)Tennessee Retina, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Uveal melanoma is the most common primary intraocular 
malignancy, and its metastases are deadly. Significant work has been done to 
elucidate the molecular framework that causes uveal melanoma development and 
metastasis. This review is intended to highlight the most recent breakthroughs 
in the molecular understanding of uveal melanoma.
RECENT FINDINGS: Monosomy of chromosome 3 and class 2 gene-expression profile 
are well-known indicators of melanoma metastasis. However, some patients with 
disomy 3 and class 1 gene expression profiling (GEP) still develop metastasis. 
Disomy 3 tumors may be further classified based upon the presence of an SF3B1 
mutation. The role of SF3B1 gene is unclear at this time but may be related to 
the development of late metastases among disomy 3 uveal melanoma. Class 1 GEP 
tumors have recently been subdivided into class 1a and class 1b, with class 1b 
tumors carrying a slightly higher risk of metastasis. Among patients with either 
class 1 or class 2 GEP, the expression of preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME) is an independent risk factor for the development of 
metastasis. Mutation of GNAQ is the most commonly observed mutation in uveal 
melanoma, regardless of chromosome 3 status or GEP class. Inhibitors or GNAQ may 
be targets for therapeutic intervention in uveal melanoma. MicroRNA molecules 
are small noncoding RNA molecules that have been recently demonstrated to 
function in RNA silencing and posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression. 
These molecules may play a role in the development of uveal melanoma metastasis.
SUMMARY: New findings such as the presence or absence of PRAME, mutations in the 
SF3B1 gene and microRNA dysregulation have added new layers to our understanding 
of uveal melanoma. These new concepts will enhance our ability to prognosticate 
tumor metastasis and may provide targets for therapeutic intervention.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0000000000000366
PMID: 28257297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Reproduction. 2017 Jun;153(6):847-863. doi: 10.1530/REP-17-0013. Epub 2017
Mar  29.

A novel testis-specific protein, PRAMEY, is involved in spermatogenesis in 
cattle.

Liu WS(1), Zhao Y(2), Lu C(2), Ning G(3), Ma Y(2)(4), Diaz F(2), O'Connor M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal ScienceCenter for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences wul12@psu.edu.
(2)Department of Animal ScienceCenter for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences.
(3)Microscopy and Cytometry FacilityThe Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, 
The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania, USA.
(4)College of Life ScienceXinyang Normal University, Xinyang, Henan, China.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer/testis antigen 
that is predominantly expressed in normal testicular tissues and a variety of 
tumors. The function of the PRAME family in spermatogenesis remains unknown. 
This study was designed to characterize the Y-linked PRAME (PRAMEY) protein 
during spermatogenesis in cattle. We found that PRAMEY is a novel male germ 
cell-specific, and a germinal granule-associated protein that is expressed in 
spermatogenic cells during spermatogenesis. The intact PRAMEY protein (58 kDa) 
was detected in different ages of testes but not in epididymal spermatozoa. A 
PRAMEY isoform (30 kDa) was highly expressed only in testes after puberty and in 
epididymal spermatozoa. This isoform interacts with PP1γ2 and is likely the 
mature protein present in the testes and sperm. Immunofluorescent staining 
demonstrated that PRAMEY was located predominantly in the acrosome granule of 
spermatids, and in acrosome and flagellum of spermatozoa. Immunogold electron 
microscopy further localized the PRAMEY protein complex to the nucleus and 
several cytoplasmic organelles, including the rough endoplasmic reticulum, some 
small vesicles, the intermitochondrial cement, the chromatoid body and the 
centrioles, in spermatogonia, spermatocytes, spermatids and/or spermatozoa. 
PRAMEY was highly enriched in and structurally associated with the matrix of the 
acrosomal granule (AG) in round spermatids, and migrated with the expansion of 
the AG during acrosomal biogenesis. While the function of PRAMEY remains unclear 
during spermatogenesis, our results suggest that PRAMEY may play an essential 
role in acrosome biogenesis and spermatogenesis.Free Chinese abstract: A Chinese 
translation of this abstract is freely available at 
http://www.reproduction-online.org/content/153/6/847/suppl/DC1.FreeSpanish 
abstract: A Spanish translation of this abstract is freely available at 
http://www.reproduction-online.org/content/153/6/847/suppl/DC2.

© 2017 Society for Reproduction and Fertility.

DOI: 10.1530/REP-17-0013
PMID: 28356500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. JAMA Dermatol. 2017 Jul 1;153(7):675-680. doi:
10.1001/jamadermatol.2017.0473.

Utility of a Noninvasive 2-Gene Molecular Assay for Cutaneous Melanoma and 
Effect on the Decision to Biopsy.

Ferris LK(1), Jansen B(2), Ho J(1), Busam KJ(3), Gross K(4), Hansen DD(5), 
Alsobrook JP 2nd(2), Yao Z(2), Peck GL(6), Gerami P(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.
(2)DermTech, Inc, La Jolla, California.
(3)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
New York.
(4)Skin Surgery Medical Group, San Diego, California.
(5)East County Dermatology Medical Group, El Cajon, California.
(6)Dermatologic Surgery Center of Washington, Chevy Chase, Maryland.
(7)Department of Dermatology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.

IMPORTANCE: Expression of long intergenic non-protein coding RNA 518 (LINC00518) 
and preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) genes, obtained via 
noninvasive adhesive patch biopsy, is a sensitive and specific method for 
detection of cutaneous melanoma. However, the utility of this test in biopsy 
decisions made by dermatologists has not been evaluated.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the utility of the pigmented lesion assay (PLA) for 
LINC00518/PRAME expression in decisions to biopsy a series of pigmented skin 
lesions.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: In this secure web-based, 
multiple-reader-multiple-case study, 45 board-certified dermatologists each 
evaluated 60 clinical and dermoscopic images of clinically atypical pigmented 
lesions, first without and then with PLA gene expression information and were 
asked whether the lesions should be biopsied. Data were collected from March 24, 
2014, through November 13, 2015.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were given a report for each lesion, which included 
the results of an assay for expression of LINC00518/PRAME and a PLA score with 
data on the predictive values of the information provided.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Biopsy sensitivity and specificity with vs without 
PLA data.
RESULTS: Forty-five dermatologists (29 male and 16 female) performed the 
evaluation. After incorporating the PLA into their decision as to whether to 
biopsy a pigmented lesion suggestive of melanoma, dermatologists improved their 
mean biopsy sensitivity from 95.0% to 98.6% (P = .01); specificity increased 
from 32.1% to 56.9% (P < .001) with PLA data.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The noninvasive PLA enables dermatologists to 
significantly improve biopsy specificity while maintaining or improving 
sensitivity. This result may increase the number of early melanomas biopsied and 
reduce the number of benign lesions biopsied, thereby improving patient outcomes 
and reducing health care costs.

DOI: 10.1001/jamadermatol.2017.0473
PMCID: PMC5543318
PMID: 28445578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Drs Ferris, 
Hansen, Alsobrook, Peck, and Gerami report serving as consultants to DermTech, 
Inc. Drs Jansen and Yao report employment by DermTech, Inc. Drs Jansen, 
Alsobrook, and Yao report stock ownership or options in DermTech, Inc. No other 
disclosures were reported.


244. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2017 Jun 1;135(6):541-549. doi: 
10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2017.0729.

PRAME as a Potential Target for Immunotherapy in Metastatic Uveal Melanoma.

Gezgin G(1), Luk SJ(2), Cao J(3), Dogrusöz M(1), van der Steen DM(2), Hagedoorn 
RS(2), Krijgsman D(1), van der Velden PA(1), Field MG(4), Luyten GPM(1), Szuhai 
K(5), Harbour JW(4), Jordanova ES(6), Heemskerk MHM(2), Jager MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Haematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands3Department of Ophthalmology, The Second Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, China.
(4)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida.
(5)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, the Netherlands.
(6)Department of Pathology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands7Center for Gynecological Oncology Amsterdam, Department of 
Obstetrics and Gynecology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.

IMPORTANCE: Uveal melanoma (UM) is an intraocular primary malignant neoplasm 
that often gives rise to metastatic disease for which there are no effective 
therapies. A substantial proportion of UMs express the cancer-testis antigen 
PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma), which can potentially be 
targeted by adoptive T-cell therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether there may be a rationale for PRAME-directed 
T-cell therapy for metastatic UM.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: An experimental study using a retrospective 
cohort of 64 patients with UM (median follow-up, 62 months) was conducted from 
January 8, 2015, to November 20, 2016, at the Leiden University Medical Center. 
Clinical, histopathologic, and genetic parameters were compared between 64 
PRAME-positive and PRAME-negative UMs. HLA class I restricted, PRAME-specific T 
cells were stimulated with UM cell lines to measure their antigen-specific 
reactivity against these cell lines, which were analyzed for PRAME expression by 
real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Uveal melanoma metastases from 
16 unrelated patients were assessed for PRAME expression by messenger RNA 
fluorescence in situ hybridization and for HLA class I expression by 
immunofluorescence staining.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Interferon γ production for antigen-specific 
reactivity and detection of PRAME and HLA class I expression in primary and 
metastatic UM.
RESULTS: Of the 64 patients in the study (31 women and 33 men; mean [SD] age at 
the time of enucleation, 60.6 [15.6] years), PRAME expression was negative in 35 
primary UMs and positive in 29 primary UMs. Positive PRAME expression was 
associated with a high largest basal diameter (15.0 vs 12.0 mm; P = .005), 
ciliary body involvement (59% vs 26%; P = .008), and amplification of chromosome 
8q (66% vs 23%; P = .002). PRAME-specific T cells reacted against 4 of 7 UM cell 
lines, demonstrating that T-cell reactivity correlated with PRAME expression. 
Metastatic UM samples were positive for PRAME messenger RNA in 11 of 16 patients 
and for HLA class I in 10 of 16 patients, with 8 of 16 patients demonstrating 
coexpression of both PRAME and HLA class I.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: PRAME is expressed in many primary and metastatic 
UMs, and about half of the metastatic UMs coexpress PRAME and HLA class I. The 
finding that PRAME-specific T cells in this study reacted against PRAME-positive 
UM cell lines suggests a potential role for PRAME-directed immunotherapy for 
selected patients with metastatic UM.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2017.0729
PMCID: PMC5509351
PMID: 28448663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: All authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest. Dr Harbour reported being the inventor of intellectual 
property related to gene expression profiling and BAP1 mutations in uveal 
melanoma and receiving royalties from its commercialization and serving as a 
paid consultant for Castle Biosciences, licensee of this technology. No other 
disclosures were reported.


245. Oncol Lett. 2017 Apr;13(4):2823-2830. doi: 10.3892/ol.2017.5790. Epub 2017
Feb  28.

Methylation pattern of preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma in acute 
myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndromes.

Qin YZ(1), Zhang YH(1), Qin XY(1), Zhu HH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Peking University People's Hospital, Peking 
University Institute of Hematology, Beijing 100044, P.R. China.

Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME), a tumor-associated 
antigen, is overexpressed in a variety of hematologic malignancies with a great 
variation in expression. The majority of patients with acute myeloid leukemia 
(AML) 1-eight-twenty one (ETO)+ AML and a certain number of myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDS) have an abnormally high increase in PRAME expression level. The 
landscape of PRAME methylation requires evaluation in order to determine the 
most relevant sites and the exact association of its methylation with expression 
level and type of disease. In the present study, bone marrow samples collected 
from 8 AML1-ETO+ AML, 4 MDS, 3 AML1-ETO- AML and 2 normal volunteers underwent 
bisulfate sequencing to analyze the methylation status of all four 
5'-C-phosphate-G-3' (CpG) regions within the entire PRAME gene. The median PRAME 
transcript level of 15 patients was 204.5% (range, 0.02-710.3%). PRAME 
transcript levels were inversely associated with the degree of methylation of 
the -389 to -146 CpG sites (r=-0.69; P=0.002) in the 3' part of the promoter 
region and the +132 to +363 CpG sites (r=-0.69; P=0.006) in the exon 1b region. 
However, not every sample strictly followed this correlation: Certain samples 
with high degrees of methylation demonstrated abnormally high expression levels, 
and vice versa. The methylation ratios of CpG sites in exon 1a were low for all 
samples (range, 0.0-13.8%), and those in exon 2 were similar in 16 samples 
(range, 72.4-93.4%), with the exception of one patient with high expression 
(425.2%) and significantly low degree of methylation in the PRAME gene (22.2%). 
MDS patients revealed similar methylation ratios in the 3' section of the 
promoter region, but tended to have lower methylation ratios in the exon 1b 
region (P=0.62 and P=0.09, respectively) compared with those observed in 
AML1-ETO+ patients with AML and similar degree of PRAME overexpression. 
Therefore, the hypomethylation of CpG sites in the 3' part of the promoter 
region and in exon 1b was typically found with PRAME overexpression in AML and 
MDS. Methylation of other CpG islands, epigenetic and genetic mechanisms, and 
type of disease may also be involved.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2017.5790
PMCID: PMC5403176
PMID: 28454473


246. Oncoimmunology. 2017 Mar 20;6(4):e1305535. doi:
10.1080/2162402X.2017.1305535.  eCollection 2017.

Deep exploration of the immune infiltrate and outcome prediction in testicular 
cancer by quantitative multiplexed immunohistochemistry and gene expression 
profiling.

Siska PJ(1)(2), Johnpulle RAN(3), Zhou A(4), Bordeaux J(5), Kim JY(5), Dabbas 
B(6), Dakappagari N(5), Rathmell JC(1)(7), Rathmell WK(3), Morgans AK(3), Balko 
JM(3)(7), Johnson DB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University Hospital Regensburg, 
Regensburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Pathology, Microbiology, and Immunology, Vanderbilt University 
Medical Center and Vanderbilt Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center and Vanderbilt 
Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(4)School of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center and Vanderbilt 
Ingram Cancer Center, Nashville, TN, USA.
(5)Navigate BioPharma Services, Inc., a Novartis Company, Carlsbad, CA, USA.
(6)Genoptix, Inc., Carlsbad, CA, USA.
(7)Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, TN, USA.

Platinum-based chemotherapy is usually curative for patients with testicular 
germ cell tumors (TGCT), but a subset of patients experience disease progression 
and poor clinical outcomes. Here, we tested whether immune profiling of TGCT 
could identify novel prognostic markers and therapeutic targets for this patient 
cohort. We obtained primary and metastatic TGCT samples from one center. We 
performed immune profiling using multiplexed fluorescence immunohistochemistry 
(FIHC) for T-cell subsets and immune checkpoints, and targeted gene expression 
profiling (Nanostring nCounter Immune panel). Publically available data sets 
were used to validate primary sample analyses. Nearly all samples had some 
degree of T-cell infiltration and immune checkpoint expression. Seminomas were 
associated with increased CD3+ T-cell infiltration, decreased Regulatory 
T-cells, increased PD-L1, and increased PD-1/PD-L1 spatial interaction compared 
with non-seminomas using FIHC. Gene expression profiling confirmed these 
findings and also demonstrated increased expression of T-cell markers (e.g., 
IFNγ, and LAG3) and cancer/testis antigens (e.g., PRAME) in seminomas, whereas 
non-seminomas demonstrated high neutrophil and macrophage gene signatures. 
Irrespective of histology, advanced TGCT stage was associated with decreased 
T-cell and NK-cell signatures, while Treg, neutrophil, mast cell and macrophage 
signatures increased with advanced stage. Importantly, cancer/testis antigen, 
neutrophil, and CD8+/regulatory T-cell signatures correlated with recurrence 
free survival. Thus, deep immune characterization of TGCT using IHC and gene 
expression profiling identified activated T-cell infiltration which correlated 
with seminoma histology and good prognosis. These results may provide a 
rationale for testing of anti-PD-1/PD-L1 agents and suggest prognostic markers.

DOI: 10.1080/2162402X.2017.1305535
PMCID: PMC5414873
PMID: 28507813


247. Nat Cell Biol. 2017 Jul;19(7):763-773. doi: 10.1038/ncb3554. Epub 2017 Jun
12.

Pramel7 mediates ground-state pluripotency through proteasomal-epigenetic 
combined pathways.

Graf U(1)(2)(3), Casanova EA(1), Wyck S(3)(4)(5), Dalcher D(3)(4), Gatti M(6), 
Vollenweider E(3)(4), Okoniewski MJ(7), Weber FA(2)(3), Patel SS(2)(3), Schmid 
MW(8), Li J(9), Sharif J(10), Wanner GA(1), Koseki H(10), Wong J(9), Pelczar 
P(11), Penengo L(6), Santoro R(4)(12), Cinelli P(1)(2)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma Surgery, Center for Clinical Research, University 
Hospital Zurich, University of Zurich, Sternwartstrasse 14, CH-8091 Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(2)Institute of Laboratory Animal Science, University of Zurich, 
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)Life Science Zurich Graduate School, University of Zurich, 
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Molecular Mechanisms of Disease, University of Zurich, 
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Clinic of Reproductive Medicine, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 
260, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(6)Institute of Molecular Cancer Research, University of Zurich, 
Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(7)Scientific IT Services, ETH Zurich, Weinbergstrasse 11, CH-8092 Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(8)Service and Support for Science IT, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 
190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.
(9)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Regulatory Biology, Institute of Biomedical 
Sciences and School of Life Sciences, East China Normal University, Shanghai 
200241, China.
(10)Developmental Genetics Laboratory, RIKEN Center for Integrative Medical 
Sciences, 1-7-22 Suehiuro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama City, Kanagawa 230-0045, 
Japan.
(11)Center for Transgenic Models, University of Basel, Mattenstrasse 22, CH-4002 
Basel, Switzerland.
(12)Center for Applied Biotechnology and Molecular Medicine, University of 
Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 190, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

Erratum in
    Nat Cell Biol. 2017 Jul 28;19(8):1003.

Naive pluripotency is established in preimplantation epiblast. Embryonic stem 
cells (ESCs) represent the immortalization of naive pluripotency. 2i culture has 
optimized this state, leading to a gene signature and DNA hypomethylation 
closely comparable to preimplantation epiblast, the developmental ground state. 
Here we show that Pramel7 (PRAME-like 7), a protein highly expressed in the 
inner cell mass (ICM) but expressed at low levels in ESCs, targets for 
proteasomal degradation UHRF1, a key factor for DNA methylation maintenance. 
Increasing Pramel7 expression in serum-cultured ESCs promotes a preimplantation 
epiblast-like gene signature, reduces UHRF1 levels and causes global DNA 
hypomethylation. Pramel7 is required for blastocyst formation and its forced 
expression locks ESCs in pluripotency. Pramel7/UHRF1 expression is mutually 
exclusive in ICMs whereas Pramel7-knockout embryos express high levels of UHRF1. 
Our data reveal an as-yet-unappreciated dynamic nature of DNA methylation 
through proteasome pathways and offer insights that might help to improve ESC 
culture to reproduce in vitro the in vivo ground-state pluripotency.

DOI: 10.1038/ncb3554
PMID: 28604677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Gastrointest Tumors. 2017 Mar;3(3-4):128-135. doi: 10.1159/000448137. Epub
2016  Aug 3.

Impact of Preferentially Expressed Antigen of Melanoma on the Prognosis of 
Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Oyama K(1)(2), Kanki K(2)(3), Shimizu H(2), Kono Y(2), Azumi J(2), Toriguchi 
K(4), Hatano E(4), Shiota G(2).

Author information:
(1)Tottori University Hospital Cancer Center, Tottori University, Yonago, Japan.
(2)Division of Molecular and Genetic Medicine, Department of Genetic Medicine 
and Regenerative Therapeutics, Graduate School of Medicine, Tottori University, 
Yonago, Japan.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Okayama 
University of Science, Okayama, Japan.
(4)Department of Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University, Kyoto, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Retinoids, vitamin A and its derivatives, have an antitumor effect 
on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The function of retinoids is exerted by the 
complex of retinoic acid (RA) with the heterodimer of retinoid X receptor and 
the RA receptor. The preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) acts 
as a dominant repressor of RA signaling by binding to the complex. The 
significance of PRAME on the prognosis of HCC remains to be clarified.
METHODS: PRAME mRNA expression was examined by quantitative real-time polymerase 
chain reaction in both tumor and non-tumor tissues of 100 HCC patients who 
received surgical resection. The effect of PRAME knockdown on DR5-mediated RA 
transcriptional activity was examined.
RESULTS: In tumor tissues, there were significant associations among PRAME 
expression, clinical stage, tumor markers, and tumor numbers. In non-tumor 
tissues, there were significant associations among PRAME expression, overall 
survival, and disease-free survival. The knockdown of PRAME caused no reduction 
in DR5-mediated transcriptional activity of RA, suggesting that PRAME acts via 
other mechanisms than the DR5 RA-responsive elements.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that PRAME expression is a novel prognostic 
marker in HCC patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000448137
PMCID: PMC5465675
PMID: 28611979


249. J Clin Invest. 2017 Jun 30;127(7):2705-2718. doi: 10.1172/JCI92335. Epub
2017  Jun 19.

A therapeutic T cell receptor mimic antibody targets tumor-associated PRAME 
peptide/HLA-I antigens.

Chang AY(1)(2), Dao T(1), Gejman RS(1)(3), Jarvis CA(1), Scott A(1)(4), 
Dubrovsky L(1), Mathias MD(1), Korontsvit T(1), Zakhaleva V(1), Curcio M(1), 
Hendrickson RC(1), Liu C(5), Scheinberg DA(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Pharmacology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center 
(MSKCC), New York, New York, USA.
(2)Biochemistry Cell and Molecular Biology Program.
(3)Pharmacology Program, and.
(4)Immunology and Microbial Pathogenesis Program, Weill Cornell Medicine, 
Cornell University, New York, New York, USA.
(5)Eureka Therapeutics, Emeryville, California, USA.

Erratum in
    J Clin Invest. 2017 Sep 1;127(9):3557.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer-testis antigen 
that is expressed in many cancers and leukemias. In healthy tissue, PRAME 
expression is limited to the testes and ovaries, making it a highly attractive 
cancer target. PRAME is an intracellular protein that cannot currently be 
drugged. After proteasomal processing, the PRAME300-309 peptide ALYVDSLFFL (ALY) 
is presented in the context of human leukocyte antigen HLA-A*02:01 molecules for 
recognition by the T cell receptor (TCR) of cytotoxic T cells. Here, we have 
described Pr20, a TCR mimic (TCRm) human IgG1 antibody that recognizes the 
cell-surface ALY peptide/HLA-A2 complex. Pr20 is an immunological tool and 
potential therapeutic agent. Pr20 bound to PRAME+HLA-A2+ cancers. An 
afucosylated Fc form (Pr20M) directed antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity 
against PRAME+HLA-A2+ leukemia cells and was therapeutically effective against 
mouse xenograft models of human leukemia. In some tumors, Pr20 binding markedly 
increased upon IFN-γ treatment, mediated by induction of the immunoproteasome 
catalytic subunit β5i. The immunoproteasome reduced internal destructive 
cleavages within the ALY epitope compared with the constitutive proteasome. The 
data provide rationale for developing TCRm antibodies as therapeutic agents for 
cancer, offer mechanistic insight on proteasomal regulation of tumor-associated 
peptide/HLA antigen complexes, and yield possible therapeutic solutions to 
target antigens with ultra-low surface presentation.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI92335
PMCID: PMC5490756
PMID: 28628042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: D.A. Scheinberg has 
potential conflicts of interest, defined by the JCI by ownership in, income 
from, or research funds from Pfizer, Abbott, Progenics Pharmaceuticals, 
ContraFect Corp., Sellas Life Sciences, Sapience Therapeutics Inc., Allergan, 
Actinium Pharmaceuticals Inc., Eureka Therapeutics, and Intuitive Surgical Inc. 
D.A. Scheinberg, L.T. Dao, L. Dubrovsky, and C. Liu are inventors on 
intellectual property for which patents have been filed by MSKCC (WO2014143835 
A1, WO2012135854 A2, and WO2016191246). C. Liu has ownership in Eureka 
Therapeutics.


250. Clin Sarcoma Res. 2017 Jun 15;7:11. doi: 10.1186/s13569-017-0077-3.
eCollection  2017.

Overexpressed PRAME is a potential immunotherapy target in sarcoma subtypes.

Roszik J(1)(2), Wang WL(3), Livingston JA(4), Roland CL(5), Ravi V(4), Yee C(1), 
Hwu P(1)(4), Futreal A(2), Lazar AJ(3), Patel SR(4), Conley AP(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Melanoma Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030 USA.
(2)Department of Genomic Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030 USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030 USA.
(4)Department of Sarcoma Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030 USA.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd, Houston, TX 77030 USA.

BACKGROUND: PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma), a member of 
the cancer-testis antigen family, has been shown to have increased expression in 
solid tumors, including sarcoma, and PRAME-specific therapies are currently in 
development for other cancers such as melanoma.
METHODS: To map the landscape of PRAME expression in sarcoma, we used publicly 
available data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and the Cancer Cell Line 
Encyclopedia (CCLE) projects and determined which sarcoma subtypes and subsets 
are associated with increased PRAME expression. We also analyzed how PRAME 
expression correlates with survival and expression of markers related to antigen 
presentation and T cell function. Furthermore, tumor and normal tissue 
expression comparisons were performed using data from the genotype-tissue 
expression (GTEx) project.
RESULTS: We found that uterine carcinosarcoma highly overexpresses the PRAME 
antigen, and synovial sarcomas and multifocal leiomyosarcomas also show high 
expressions suggesting that PRAME may be an effective target of immunotherapies 
of these tumors. However, we also discovered that PRAME expression negatively 
correlates with genes involved in antigen presentation, and in synovial sarcoma 
MHC class I antigen presentation deficiencies are also present, potentially 
limiting the efficacy of immunotherapies of this malignancy.
CONCLUSIONS: We determined that uterine carcinosarcoma, synovial sarcoma, and 
leiomyosarcoma patients would potentially benefit from PRAME-specific 
immunotherapies. Tumor escape through loss of antigen presentation needs to be 
further studied.

DOI: 10.1186/s13569-017-0077-3
PMCID: PMC5471883
PMID: 28630682


251. Cancer Lett. 2017 Sep 10;403:144-151. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.06.015.
Epub  2017 Jun 17.

Tumor antigen PRAME is up-regulated by MZF1 in cooperation with DNA 
hypomethylation in melanoma cells.

Lee YK(1), Park UH(1), Kim EJ(2), Hwang JT(3), Jeong JC(4), Um SJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Sejong University, Seoul 143-747, 
South Korea.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, Dankook University, Gyeonggi-do 448-701, 
South Korea.
(3)Korea Food Research Institute, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, 463-746, South Korea.
(4)Department of Biochemistry, Molecular Biology and Internal Medicine, College 
of Oriental Medicine, Dongguk University, Kyungpook 780-714, South Korea.
(5)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Sejong University, Seoul 143-747, 
South Korea. Electronic address: umsj@sejong.ac.kr.

Elevated expression of preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has 
been implicated in disease progression in a variety of cancers. However, the 
mechanisms underlying the transcriptional regulation of PRAME remain largely 
unexplored. Initially, we observed that PRAME was elevated in proportion to the 
malignant potential of melanoma cells. From the in silico prediction of PRAME 
gene structure, we identified the putative myeloid zinc finger 1 (MZF1) binding 
sites, which overlap with a CpG-rich region located in the first intron. The 
transcription factor MZF1 increased PRAME expression via its direct binding to 
the intron DNA. Upon treatment with a DNA methylation inhibitor, 
5-aza-2'-deoxycitidine (5-azaC), together with ectopic expression of MZF1, PRAME 
expression was significantly enhanced at both the protein and mRNA levels. More 
pronounced MZF1 binding to the PRAME DNA was observed in the presence of 5-azaC. 
DNA methylation was inversely correlated with PRAME expression in melanoma 
cells. Finally, we observed that MZF1, like PRAME, promotes the colony-forming 
ability in melanoma cells. Overall, our findings suggest that MZF1, via 
stimulation of PRAME expression, may be a potential prognostic and therapeutic 
target in melanoma.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2017.06.015
PMID: 28634046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Brain Lang. 2017 Nov;174:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.bandl.2017.06.007. Epub 2017
Jul 8.

Axon guidance pathways served as common targets for human speech/language 
evolution and related disorders.

Lei H(1), Yan Z(2), Sun X(3), Zhang Y(4), Wang J(4), Ma C(5), Xu Q(3), Wang 
R(6), Jarvis ED(7), Sun Z(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing 
Center of Neural Regeneration and Repair, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative 
Diseases of the Ministry of Education, Capital Medical University, Beijing 
100069, China. Electronic address: leihm@ccmu.edu.cn.
(2)MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua 
University, Beijing 100084, China.
(3)Department of Neurobiology, Beijing Institute for Brain Disorders, Beijing 
Center of Neural Regeneration and Repair, Key Laboratory for Neurodegenerative 
Diseases of the Ministry of Education, Capital Medical University, Beijing 
100069, China.
(4)Department of Children Healthcare, Capital Institute of Pediatrics, Beijing, 
100020, China.
(5)Reproductive Medicine Center of Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, 
100191, China.
(6)Hengkuan Telegenomics Co., Ltd., 36/F, 5 Meiyuan Rd., Tianjin 300384, China.
(7)Department of Neurobiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, 
USA; Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Chevy Chase, MD, 20815-6789, USA.
(8)MOE Key Laboratory of Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences, Tsinghua 
University, Beijing 100084, China. Electronic address: 
sunzhr@mail.tsinghua.edu.cn.

Human and several nonhuman species share the rare ability of modifying acoustic 
and/or syntactic features of sounds produced, i.e. vocal learning, which is the 
important neurobiological and behavioral substrate of human speech/language. 
This convergent trait was suggested to be associated with significant genomic 
convergence and best manifested at the ROBO-SLIT axon guidance pathway. Here we 
verified the significance of such genomic convergence and assessed its 
functional relevance to human speech/language using human genetic variation 
data. In normal human populations, we found the affected amino acid sites were 
well fixed and accompanied with significantly more associated protein-coding 
SNPs in the same genes than the rest genes. Diseased individuals with 
speech/language disorders have significant more low frequency protein coding 
SNPs but they preferentially occurred outside the affected genes. Such patients' 
SNPs were enriched in several functional categories including two axon guidance 
pathways (mediated by netrin and semaphorin) that interact with ROBO-SLITs. Four 
of the six patients have homozygous missense SNPs on PRAME gene family, one 
youngest gene family in human lineage, which possibly acts upon retinoic acid 
receptor signaling, similarly as FOXP2, to modulate axon guidance. Taken 
together, we suggest the axon guidance pathways (e.g. ROBO-SLIT, PRAME gene 
family) served as common targets for human speech/language evolution and related 
disorders.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandl.2017.06.007
PMID: 28692932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Pathol Int. 2017 Sep;67(9):435-446. doi: 10.1111/pin.12565. Epub 2017 Jul
31.

Soft tissue sarcomas: From a morphological to a molecular biological approach.

Oda Y(1), Yamamoto H(1), Kohashi K(1), Yamada Y(1), Iura K(1)(2), Ishii T(1)(2), 
Maekawa A(1)(2), Bekki H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, 3-1-1 Maidashi, Higashi-ku, Fukuoka 812-8582, Japan.

Recently developed molecular genetic techniques have led to the elucidation of 
tumor-specific genomic alterations and thereby the reclassification of tumor 
entities of soft tissue sarcoma. A solitary fibrous tumor-mimicking tumor with 
the AHRR-NCOA2 gene has been isolated as angiofibroma of soft tissue. As for 
small round cell sarcomas, novel fusion genes such as CIC-DUX4 and BCOR-CCNB3 
have been identified in these tumor groups. SMARCB1/INI1 deficient tumors with 
round cell morphology are also expected to be reclassified in three types, based 
on the combination of their morphology and genotype. The identification of the 
MDM2 gene amplification in pleomorphic sarcomas has extended the entity of 
dedifferentiated liposarcoma (DDLS). Our recent molecular investigations 
elucidated candidates for novel therapeutic strategies. Activation of the 
Akt-mTOR pathway was correlated with poor prognosis or tumor grade in spindle 
cell sarcomas including malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor. In vitro and in 
vivo studies of transcription factor Forkhead Box M1 (FOXM1) demonstrated the 
close correlation between aggressive biological behavior or chemosensitivity and 
FOXM1 expression in synovial sarcoma, so far. Finally, in regard to the 
investigation of cancer-testis antigens, myxoid/round cell liposarcoma and 
synovial sarcoma showed frequent and high expression of PRAME and NY-ESO-1.

© 2017 Japanese Society of Pathology and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pin.12565
PMID: 28759137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. J Clin Invest. 2017 Sep 1;127(9):3557. doi: 10.1172/JCI96860. Epub 2017 Sep
1.

A therapeutic T cell receptor mimic antibody targets tumor-associated PRAME 
peptide/HLA-I antigens.

Chang AY, Dao T, Gejman RS, Jarvis CA, Scott A, Dubrovsky L, Mathias MD, 
Korontsvit T, Zakhaleva V, Curcio M, Hendrickson RC, Liu C, Scheinberg DA.

Erratum for
    J Clin Invest. 2017 Jun 30;127(7):2705-2718.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI96860
PMCID: PMC5669580
PMID: 28862643


255. Clin Cancer Res. 2017 Dec 15;23(24):7474-7482. doi: 
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-2005. Epub 2017 Sep 26.

Immune Activation in Early-Stage Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients Receiving 
Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy Plus Ipilimumab.

Yi JS(1), Ready N(2), Healy P(3), Dumbauld C(1), Osborne R(1), Berry M(4), 
Shoemaker D(2), Clarke J(2), Crawford J(2), Tong B(1), Harpole D(1), D'Amico 
TA(1), McSherry F(3), Dunphy F(2), McCall SJ(5), Christensen JD(6), Wang X(7), 
Weinhold KJ(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(2)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(3)Duke Cancer Center Biostatistics, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, 
North Carolina.
(4)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California.
(5)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(6)Department of Radiology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina.
(7)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, North Carolina.
(8)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina. kjw@duke.edu.

Comment in
    J Thorac Dis. 2018 Jun;10(Suppl 17):S1945-S1948.

Purpose: To determine the immunologic effects of neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus 
ipilimumab in early-stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
patients.Experimental Design: This is a single-arm chemotherapy plus phased 
ipilimumab phase II study of 24 treatment-naïve patients with stage IB-IIIA 
NSCLC. Patients received neoadjuvant therapy consisting of 3 cycles of 
paclitaxel with either cisplatin or carboplatin and ipilimumab included in the 
last 2 cycles.Results: Chemotherapy alone had little effect on immune parameters 
in PBMCs. Profound CD28-dependent activation of both CD4 and CD8 cells was 
observed following ipilimumab. Significant increases in the frequencies of CD4+ 
cells expressing activation markers ICOS, HLA-DR, CTLA-4, and PD-1 were 
apparent. Likewise, increased frequencies of CD8+ cells expressing the same 
activation markers, with the exception of PD-1, were observed. We also examined 
7 resected tumors and found higher frequencies of activated tumor-infiltrating 
lymphocytes than those observed in PBMCs. Surprisingly, we found 4 cases of 
preexisting tumor-associated antigens (TAA) responses against survivin, PRAME, 
or MAGE-A3 present in PBMC at baseline, but neither increased frequencies nor 
the appearance of newly detectable responses following ipilimumab therapy. 
Ipilimumab had little effect on the frequencies of circulating regulatory T 
cells and MDSCs.Conclusions: This study did not meet the primary endpoint of 
detecting an increase in blood-based TAA T-cell responses after ipilimumab. 
Collectively, these results highlight the immune activating properties of 
ipilimumab in early-stage NSCLC. The immune profiling data for ipilimumab alone 
can contribute to the interpretation of immunologic data from combined immune 
checkpoint blockade immunotherapies. Clin Cancer Res; 23(24); 7474-82. ©2017 
AACR.

©2017 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-17-2005
PMCID: PMC5732888
PMID: 28951518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Neal Ready, MD, PhD: 
scientific advisor: BMS, Celgene, MERCK, Astra Zeneca, Arriad Honoria: BMS 
Jeffrey Crawford MD: scientific advisor: AstraZeneca, Merck, Pfizer Jeffrey 
Clarke MD: scientific advisor: Medpacto


256. DNA Cell Biol. 2017 Dec;36(12):1099-1107. doi: 10.1089/dna.2017.3951. Epub
2017  Sep 27.

PRAME Gene Copy Number Variation Is Related to Its Expression in Multiple 
Myeloma.

Yang L(1), Wang YZ(1), Zhu HH(1), Chang Y(1), Li LD(1), Chen WM(1), Long LY(1), 
Zhang YH(1), Liu YR(1), Lu J(1), Qin YZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology , Beijing, China .

Multiple myeloma (MM) patients commonly present abnormal expression of 
cancer-testis antigens, which may serve as immunotherapeutic targets and 
prognostic factors. We previously reported that preferentially expressed antigen 
of melanoma (PRAME) overexpression in bone marrow mononuclear cells is related 
to progression in MM patients treated with non-bortezomib-containing regimens. 
The mechanism underlying variations in PRAME expression remains unknown. To 
investigate the impact of gene copy number variation (CNV) on PRAME expression, 
plasma cells were sorted from 50 newly diagnosed patients and 8 healthy 
volunteers to measure PRAME transcript levels and gene copy numbers by real-time 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction. A total of 14 (28.0%), 7 (14.0%), and 29 
(58.0%) patients exhibited overexpression, expression within the normal range, 
and low expression, respectively. PRAME overexpression was significantly related 
to a lower 1-year progression-free survival rate compared with PRAME low 
expression (20.0% vs. 88.9%, p = 0.043). The mean PRAME gene copy number 
relative to albumin (ALB) in normal samples was ∼1.0, whereas 4.0%, 24.0%, 
70.0%, and 2.0% of patients had PRAME gene relative copy numbers of 
approximately 0, 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0, respectively. Patients with PRAME gene 
deletion (relative copy number of 0 or 0.5) had significantly higher frequency 
of PRAME nonoverexpression and lambda light chain expression than those with no 
deletion (p = 0.011 and 0.003). Thus, PRAME gene CNV occurs in MM. Gene deletion 
may be one mechanism leading to PRAME nonoverexpression and related to 
immunoglobulin lambda light chain locus rearrangement. PRAME overexpression in 
plasma cells might be an adverse prognostic factor for progression in MM.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.2017.3951
PMID: 28953414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Oncotarget. 2017 Jul 26;8(39):65917-65931. doi: 10.18632/oncotarget.19579. 
eCollection 2017 Sep 12.

In vivo immuno-targeting of an extracellular epitope of membrane bound 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME).

Pankov D(1), Sjöström L(2)(3), Kalidindi T(4), Lee SG(4), Sjöström K(5), Gardner 
R(6), McDevitt MR(4)(7), O'Reilly R(1)(8)(7), Thorek DLJ(9)(10), Larson 
SM(4)(11), Veach D(4)(11), Ulmert D(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Program, Department of Pediatrics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY, USA.
(2)Molecular Pharmacology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(3)Division of Oncology, Clinical Sciences, Lund University and Skåne University 
Hospital, Lund, Sweden.
(4)Department of Radiology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(5)Innovagen AB, Lund, Sweden.
(6)Flow Cytometry Core Facility, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(7)Department of Medicine, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.
(8)Bone Marrow Transplant Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(9)Division of Nuclear Medicine and Molecular Imaging, Department of Radiology 
and Radiological Science, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns 
Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(10)Cancer Molecular and Functional Imaging Program, Department of Oncology, 
Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(11)Department of Radiology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, USA.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer/testis antigen 
that is overexpressed in a broad range of malignancies, while absent in most 
healthy human tissues, making it an attractive diagnostic cancer biomarker and 
therapeutic target. Although commonly viewed as an intracellular protein, we 
have demonstrated that PRAME has a membrane bound form with an external epitope 
targetable with conventional antibodies. We generated a polyclonal antibody 
(Membrane associated PRAME Antibody 1, MPA1) against an extracellular peptide 
sequence of PRAME. Binding of MPA1 to recombinant PRAME was evaluated by 
Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA). Flow cytometry and confocal 
immunofluorescence microscopy of MPA1 was performed on multiple tumor cell 
lines. Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) for PRAME was 
conducted to compare protein and transcriptional expression levels. We 
demonstrated a robust proof-of-concept for PRAME targeting in vivo by 
radiolabeling MPA1 with zirconium-89 (89Zr-DFO-MPA1) and demonstrating high 
specific uptake in PRAME expressing tumors. To our knowledge, this is the first 
time a cancer testis antigen has been targeted using conventional antibody 
technologies. Thus, PRAME can be exploited for multiple clinical applications, 
including targeted therapy, diagnostic imaging and treatment guidance in a 
wide-range of malignancies, with minimal off-target toxicity.

DOI: 10.18632/oncotarget.19579
PMCID: PMC5630382
PMID: 29029482

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


258. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2017 Nov 20;20(11):727-731. doi: 
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2017.11.01.

[Study on Genetype in Lung Squamous Carcinoma by High-throughput of 
 Transcriptome Sequence].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Xiong Y(1), Li M(2), Zhang P(1), Zhang L(1), Yang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery II, Beijing Cancer Hospital, Key Laboratory of 
Carcinogenesis and Translational Research  (Ministry of Education/Beijing), 
Peking University Cancer Hospital and Institute, Beijing 100142, China.
(2)Beijing Center for Physical and Chemical Analysis, Beijing 100089, China.

BACKGROUND: Recently, there is no effective targeted drug for to the lung 
squamous carcinoma, the targeted drug for the adenocarcinoma does not benefit 
for the patients with squamous lung cancer, and researchers have known less 
targets for this type of patients. The main study herein is to screen and 
identify the specific key genes for the lung squamous carcinoma that will 
provide potential novel targets to describe pathogenesis of lung cancer.
METHODS: Transcript sequence was used to detect the five pairs lung squamous 
carcinoma and normal lung tissues and bioinformatics was performed to 
investigate the differential coding genes between them and quantitative PCR was 
done to validate the key genes expression in lung cancer cell lines.
RESULTS: The results of transcriptome sequence showed that 534 genes were 
up-regulated in the tumor tissues compared with the corresponding normal 
tissues. The top ten increased genes in the tumors were GAGE12J, SPRR3, PRAME, 
SPRR1A, SPRR2E, MAGEA3, SPRR1B, IL36G and TMPRSS11D. Next, we identified 
expression of SPRR family in lung cancer cell lines H520, GLC82, A549, H1299 and 
PC9. And we found higher expression of SPRR family genes in H1299 cells which 
metastasized to the lymph node.
CONCLUSIONS: SPRR family genes are identified to be highly expressed in the lung 
squamous carcinoma by high throughput transcript sequencing. This SPRR family 
genes are associated with lymph node metastasis that provide novel idea for lung 
cancer therapy. .

Publisher: 背景与目的 
目前尚无有效的靶向药物用于肺鳞癌的临床治疗，在肺腺癌中有效的靶向药物却无法让鳞癌患者获益，而研究者对肺鳞癌的靶点知之甚少。本研究重点筛选并鉴定肺鳞癌的特异关键基因，为肺鳞癌的治疗提供新的靶点。方法 
转录组测序检测5例肺鳞癌患者的配对肺癌组织及正常肺组织样本，使用生物信息学分析筛选两组之间的差异编码基因，进而应用实时定量PCR验证关键差异基因在肺癌细胞系的表达情况。结果 
转录组测序结果显示，与正常肺组织相比，肺鳞癌组织上调的差异基因数目为534条。位于前十位肺癌组织高表达的基因包括GAGE12J、SPRR3、PRAME、SPRR1A、SPRR2E、MAGEA3、SPRR1B、IL36G、TMPRSS11D和SPRR2D。进而于不同生物特征的肺癌细胞系H520、GLC82、A549、H1299及PC9验证SPRR家族表达状态，我们发现在淋巴结转移细胞系H1299处于高表达水平。结论 
高通量转录组测序筛选到肺鳞癌异常高表达基因SPRR家族，此家族与肺癌淋巴结转移相关，为肺癌的靶向治疗提供了新的思路。.

DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2017.11.01
PMCID: PMC5973275
PMID: 29167000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Gene. 2018 Apr 15;650:7-14. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.01.093. Epub 2018 Jan
31.

Combined analysis of DNA methylation and gene expression profiles of 
osteosarcoma identified several prognosis signatures.

Tian W(1), Li Y(1), Zhang J(1), Li J(1), Gao J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine-Oncology, Cangzhou Central Hospital, Cangzhou 
061000, Hebei Province, China.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine-Oncology, Cangzhou Central Hospital, Cangzhou 
061000, Hebei Province, China. Electronic address: jhgaoczch@hotmail.com.

Osteosarcoma (OS) is a common primary malignancy in children and adolescents 
with relative high survival rate after chemotherapy. While, the toxicity of 
chemotherapy and personalized different response to chemotherapy makes it 
difficult for the selection of therapeutics and improvement of diagnosis. In 
this study, we conducted a combined analysis of two types of microarray datasets 
(gene expression and DNA methylation) from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO). 
Differential methylation sites (DMS) were identified by the IMA package and 
differential expression genes (DEGs) were screened out via the limma package. A 
total of 11,242 DMS (corresponding to 3080 genes (DMGs)) and 337 DEGs, with 40 
overlaps (OS genes) between DEGs and DMGs, were identified. Enriched functions 
of OS genes were obtained through the Database for Annotation, Visualization and 
Integrated Discovery (DAVID). The OS genes were mainly enriched in the 
biological processes related to inflammatory/immune response and Pertussis 
pathways and Hematopoietic cell lineage pathways. Besides, OS-specific disease 
network was obtained, and found that UBS and NRF1 were regulated by multiple OS 
genes. Kaplan Meier analysis of OS genes identified BHMT2, DOCK2, DNALI1 and 
RIPK3 as significant OS survival-related genes. SEMA3A and PRAME are included in 
the 40 OS genes and within the top 10 most up-regulated DEGs. Their expression 
changes were further validated in U2OS osteosarcoma cell lines and hOB normal 
cell lines through quantitative PCR (qPCR) and consistent result with microarray 
analysis was obtained. Based on this study, some novel targets were identified 
for OS, which would be helpful in its early diagnosis and treatment.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2018.01.093
PMID: 29407229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2018;45(3):1121-1135. doi: 10.1159/000487353. Epub
2018  Feb 7.

Downregulation of PRAME Suppresses Proliferation and Promotes Apoptosis in 
Hepatocellular Carcinoma Through the Activation of P53 Mediated Pathway.

Zhu H, Wang J, Yin J, Lu B, Yang Q, Wan Y, Jia C.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The expression of PRAME and its role in hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) remain unknown. The aim of this study was to examine the 
functional role of PRAME in HCC development and exploring the molecular 
mechanism.
METHODS: We first detected PRAME expression in 96 human HCC tissue samples and 
correlated with clinicopathological characteristics and prognosis of the 
patients. We then established stable HCC cell lines with PRAME overexpression 
and knockdown followed by functional analysis in vitro. Further, we examined the 
relationship between PRAME and p53 pathway in vitro by using Western blotting. 
Finally, PRAME expression was detected to evaluate its correlation with p-p53 
and p53 pathway related apoptotic proteins in xenograft tumor mouse model using 
immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: PRAME expression was significantly higher in HCC tissues than in 
adjacent non-tumor tissues and their expression was positively correlated with 
alpha fetoprotein levels and tumor size. In addition, PRAME expression was 
associated with AJCC stage and is a potential biomarker of poor prognosis 
regarding 5-year overall survival in HCC. In vitro studies, we found that PRAME 
expression was higher in HCC cell lines than in normal hepatic cell line. 
Inhibited cell proliferation and increased cell apoptosis was observed in PRAME 
knockdown HCC cells. Futher, increased cell apoptosis was correlated with the 
proportion of cells in G0/G1 stage, activated p53 mediated apoptosis, and 
increased cyclin p21 expression. Xenograft analysis in nude mice also found that 
PRAME knockdown inhibited tumorigenesis while PRAME overexpression had opposite 
effect.
CONCLUSIONS: In HCC, PRAME serves as a potential biomarker for poor prognosis 
and novel therapeutic target in treating this cancer. PRAME is a potential 
biomarker of poor prognosis in HCC. PRAME surpresses HCC cell death in vitro and 
in vivo by regulating p53 apoptotic signaling and may serve as a potential 
therapeutic target in HCC.

© 2018 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000487353
PMID: 29439259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Cancer Res. 2018 Jun 15;78(12):3337-3349. doi:
10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-17-3140.  Epub 2018 Apr 3.

Adoptive Immunotherapy Using PRAME-Specific T Cells in Medulloblastoma.

Orlando D(1), Miele E(1), De Angelis B(2), Guercio M(1), Boffa I(1), Sinibaldi 
M(1), Po A(3), Caruana I(1), Abballe L(4), Carai A(5), Caruso S(1), Camera A(1), 
Moseley A(6), Hagedoorn RS(7), Heemskerk MHM(7), Giangaspero F(8)(9), 
Mastronuzzi A(1), Ferretti E(4)(9), Locatelli F(1)(10), Quintarelli C(1)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Haematology and Oncology, IRCCS Ospedale Pediatrico 
Bambino Gesù, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Pediatric Haematology and Oncology, IRCCS Ospedale Pediatrico 
Bambino Gesù, Rome, Italy. biagio.deangelis@opbg.net.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome Italy.
(4)Department of Experimental Medicine, Sapienza University of Rome, Rome, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Neuroscience and Neurorehabilitation, Neurosurgery Unit, IRCCS 
Ospedale Pediatrico Bambino Gesù, Roma, Italia.
(6)Bellicum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Houston, Texas.
(7)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(8)Department of Radiological, Oncological and Pathological Science, Sapienza 
University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(9)Neuromed Institute, Pozzilli, Italy.
(10)Department of Paediatric Sciences, University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.
(11)Department of Clinical Medicine and Surgery, University of Naples Federico 
II, Naples, Italy.

Medulloblastoma is the most frequent malignant childhood brain tumor with a high 
morbidity. Identification of new therapeutic targets would be instrumental in 
improving patient outcomes. We evaluated the expression of the tumor-associated 
antigen PRAME in biopsies from 60 patients with medulloblastoma. PRAME 
expression was detectable in 82% of tissues independent of molecular and 
histopathologic subgroups. High PRAME expression also correlated with worse 
overall survival. We next investigated the relevance of PRAME as a target for 
immunotherapy. Medulloblastoma cells were targeted using genetically modified T 
cells with a PRAME-specific TCR (SLL TCR T cells). SLL TCR T cells efficiently 
killed medulloblastoma HLA-A*02+ DAOY cells as well as primary HLA-A*02+ 
medulloblastoma cells. Moreover, SLL TCR T cells controlled tumor growth in an 
orthotopic mouse model of medulloblastoma. To prevent unexpected T-cell-related 
toxicity, an inducible caspase-9 (iC9) gene was introduced in frame with the SLL 
TCR; this safety switch triggered prompt elimination of genetically modified T 
cells. Altogether, these data indicate that T cells genetically modified with a 
high-affinity, PRAME-specific TCR and iC9 may represent a promising innovative 
approach for treating patients with HLA-A*02+ medulloblastoma.Significance: 
These findings identify PRAME as a medulloblastoma tumor-associated antigen that 
can be targeted using genetically modified T cells. Cancer Res; 78(12); 3337-49. 
©2018 AACR.

©2018 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-17-3140
PMID: 29615432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Eur J Immunol. 2018 Aug;48(8):1400-1411. doi: 10.1002/eji.201747399. Epub
2018  Jul 8.

PRAME peptide-specific CD8(+) T cells represent the predominant response against 
leukemia-associated antigens in healthy individuals.

Matko S(1)(2), Manderla J(1)(2), Bonsack M(3), Schmitz M(3)(4)(5)(6), Bornhauser 
M(3)(4)(7)(6), Tonn T(1)(2)(3)(4), Odendahl M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Transfusion Medicine, Medical Faculty Carl Gustav Carus, TU 
Dresden, Germany.
(2)Institute for Transfusion Medicine Dresden, German Red Cross Blood Donation 
Service North-East, Dresden, Germany.
(3)Center for Regenerative Therapies Dresden (CRTD), Dresden, Germany.
(4)German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) partner site Dresden; and German Cancer 
Consortium (DKTK), Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)Institute of Immunology, Medical Faculty, TU Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(6)National Center for Tumor Diseases, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, TU 
Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(7)Department of Medicine 1, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, TU Dresden, 
Dresden, Germany.

Antigen-specific T cells isolated from healthy individuals (HIs) have shown 
great therapeutic potential upon adoptive transfer for the treatment of viremia 
in immunosuppressed patients. The lack of comprehensive data on the prevalence 
and characteristics of leukemia-associated antigen (LAA)-specific T cells in HIs 
still limits such an approach for tumor therapy. Therefore, we have investigated 
T-cell responses against prominent candidates comprising Wilms' tumor protein 1 
(WT1), preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), Survivin, NY-ESO, 
and p53 by screening PBMCs from HIs using intracellular IFN-γ staining following 
provocation with LAA peptide mixes. Here, we found predominantly poly-functional 
effector/effector memory CCR7- /CD45RA+/- /CD8+ LAA peptide-specific T cells 
with varying CD95 expression in 34 of 100 tested HIs, whereas CD4+ T cells 
responses were restricted to 5. Most frequent LAA peptide-specific T cell 
responses were directed against WT1 and PRAME peptides with a prevalence of 20 
and 17%, respectively, showing the highest magnitude (0.16% ± 0.22% (mean ± SD)) 
for PRAME peptides. Cytotoxicity of PRAME peptide-specific T cells was 
demonstrated by specific killing of PRAME peptide-pulsed T2 cells. Furthermore, 
the proliferative capacity of PRAME peptide-specific T cells was confined to HIs 
responsive toward PRAME peptide challenge corroborating the accuracy of the 
screening results. In conclusion, we identified PRAME as a promising target 
antigen for adoptive leukemia therapy.

© 2018 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/eji.201747399
PMID: 29738081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. J Drugs Dermatol. 2018 May 1;17(5):574-576.

Gene Expression Analysis Differentiates Melanomas from Spitz Nevi.

Jansen B, Hansen D, Moy R, Hanhan M, Yao Z.

INTRODUCTION: Pediatric Spitz nevi can pose significant diagnostic challenges to 
both clinicians and dermatopathologists when the current image-recognition based 
gold standard is employed. PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma) 
and/or LINC (long intergeneic non-coding RNA 518) gene expression in adult 
patients in samples obtained non-invasively via adhesive patches differentiates 
primary melanomas from atypical nevi and other pigmented lesions with a NPV of 
over 99%, a sensitivity of 91%, and a specificity of 69%, to help clinicians 
rule out melanoma and the need for surgical biopsies of atypial pigmented 
lesions with suspicion for melanoma. Surgically obtained melanomas from adult 
patients show the same gene expression pattern.
METHODS: In this study, we investigate gene expression patterns of pigmented 
lesions from FFPE tissue block samples (n=23, 9 male, 14 female patients, median 
age 12) with a focus on differentiating Spitz nevi from melanomas in children 
and young adults.
RESULTS: PRAME levels were significantly (P less than 0.001) increased based on 
normalized Ct cycle counts (lower cycle counts indicate higher expression 
levels) in melanomas (mean Ct 33.83 + 0.54, 95% CI 32.85-34.80) when compared to 
Spitz nevi (mean Ct 37.21 + 0.98, 95% CI 35.41-39.01) or common nevi (mean Ct 
36.94 + 0.80, 95% CI 35.47-38.40), respectively. LINC and 4 control genes showed 
similar expression levels in all 3 pigmented lesion groups investigated. 
Clinically and histopathologically complex pediatric Spitz nevi demonstrated 
gene expression signatures almost identical to gene expression signatures of 
common pediatric nevi but different from melanomas in children and young adults.
DISCUSSION: PRAME but not LINC gene expression can be a valuable molecular aid 
to differentiate melanomas from Spitz nevi, groups of pigmented lesions that can 
be particularly difficult to assess in children and young adults. J Drugs 
Dermatol. 2018;17(5):574-576.

PMID: 29742191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. F1000Res. 2018 Apr 18;7:F1000 Faculty Rev-476. doi: 
10.12688/f1000research.11941.1. eCollection 2018.

Recent advancements in the management of retinoblastoma and uveal melanoma.

Schefler AC(1)(2), Kim RS(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Retina Consultants of Houston, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(2)Blanton Eye Institute, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.
(3)McGovern Medical School, University of Texas Health Science Center at 
Houston, Houston, TX, 77030, USA.

Retinoblastoma and uveal melanoma are the most common intraocular malignancies 
observed in pediatric and adult populations, respectively. For retinoblastoma, 
intra-arterial chemotherapy has dramatically improved treatment outcomes and eye 
salvage rates compared with traditional salvage rates of systemic chemotherapy 
and external beam radiation therapy. Intravitreal injections of chemotherapy 
have also demonstrated excellent efficacy for vitreous seeds. Uveal melanoma, on 
the other hand, is treated predominantly with iodine-125 plaque brachytherapy or 
with proton beam therapy. Major strides in uveal melanoma genomics have been 
made since the early 2000s, allowing ocular oncologists to better understand the 
metastatic risks of the tumor on the basis of specific genetic signatures. 
Loss-of-function mutations of the BAP1 gene are associated with the highest 
metastatic risk, whereas gain-of-function mutations of SF3B1 and EIF1AX often 
confer a better prognosis. Expression of a cancer-testis antigen called PRAME 
(preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma) has been shown to increase 
metastatic risks in both low-risk and high-risk melanomas. New therapeutic 
approaches, including molecular therapies and nanoparticle phototherapy, are 
currently being investigated as alternative treatment modalities for uveal 
melanoma.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.11941.1
PMCID: PMC5911936
PMID: 29755733

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.Competing 
interests: Aura Biosciences – Clinical Advisor ICONIC Therapeutics – Consulting 
Castle Biosciences – ConsultingNo competing interests were disclosed.


265. Front Immunol. 2018 May 15;9:776. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00776. eCollection
 2018.

SV-BR-1-GM, a Clinically Effective GM-CSF-Secreting Breast Cancer Cell Line, 
Expresses an Immune Signature and Directly Activates CD4(+) T Lymphocytes.

Lacher MD(1), Bauer G(2), Fury B(2), Graeve S(1), Fledderman EL(2), Petrie 
TD(2), Coleal-Bergum DP(2), Hackett T(2), Perotti NH(2), Kong YY(3), Kwok WW(3), 
Wagner JP(1), Wiseman CL(1), Williams WV(1).

Author information:
(1)BriaCell Therapeutics Corp., Berkeley, CA, United States.
(2)GMP Facility, Institute for Regenerative Cures, University of California, 
Davis (UCD), Sacramento, CA, United States.
(3)Benaroya Research Institute at Virginia Mason, Seattle, WA, United States.

Targeted cancer immunotherapy with irradiated, granulocyte-macrophage 
colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF)-secreting, allogeneic cancer cell lines has 
been an effective approach to reduce tumor burden in several patients. It is 
generally assumed that to be effective, these cell lines need to express 
immunogenic antigens coexpressed in patient tumor cells, and antigen-presenting 
cells need to take up such antigens then present them to patient T cells. We 
have previously reported that, in a phase I pilot study (ClinicalTrials.gov 
NCT00095862), a subject with stage IV breast cancer experienced substantial 
regression of breast, lung, and brain lesions following inoculation with 
clinical formulations of SV-BR-1-GM, a GM-CSF-secreting breast tumor cell line. 
To identify diagnostic features permitting the prospective identification of 
patients likely to benefit from SV-BR-1-GM, we conducted a molecular analysis of 
the SV-BR-1-GM cell line and of patient-derived blood, as well as a tumor 
specimen. Compared to normal human breast cells, SV-BR-1-GM cells overexpress 
genes encoding tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) such as PRAME, a cancer/testis 
antigen. Curiously, despite its presumptive breast epithelial origin, the cell 
line expresses major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class II genes (HLA-DRA, 
HLA-DRB3, HLA-DMA, HLA-DMB), in addition to several other factors known to play 
immunostimulatory roles. These factors include MHC class I components (B2M, 
HLA-A, HLA-B), ADA (encoding adenosine deaminase), ADGRE5 (CD97), CD58 (LFA3), 
CD74 (encoding invariant chain and CLIP), CD83, CXCL8 (IL8), CXCL16, HLA-F, IL6, 
IL18, and KITLG. Moreover, both SV-BR-1-GM cells and the responding study 
subject carried an HLA-DRB3*02:02 allele, raising the question of whether 
SV-BR-1-GM cells can directly present endogenous antigens to T cells, thereby 
inducing a tumor-directed immune response. In support of this, SV-BR-1-GM cells 
(which also carry the HLA-DRB3*01:01 allele) treated with yellow fever virus 
(YFV) envelope (Env) 43-59 peptides reactivated YFV-DRB3*01:01-specific CD4+ T 
cells. Thus, the partial HLA allele match between SV-BR-1-GM and the clinical 
responder might have enabled patient T lymphocytes to directly recognize 
SV-BR-1-GM TAAs as presented on SV-BR-1-GM MHCs. Taken together, our findings 
are consistent with a potentially unique mechanism of action by which SV-BR-1-GM 
cells can act as APCs for previously primed CD4+ T cells.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00776
PMCID: PMC5962696
PMID: 29867922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Melanoma Res. 2018 Oct;28(5):478-482. doi: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000478.

Real-world performance and utility of a noninvasive gene expression assay to 
evaluate melanoma risk in pigmented lesions.

Ferris LK(1), Gerami P(2), Skelsey MK(3), Peck G(4), Hren C(5), Gorman C(6), 
Frumento T(7), Siegel DM(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Georgetown University School of Medicine, 
Washington, District of Columbia.
(4)Dermatologic Surgery Center of DC, Chevy Chase, Maryland.
(5)Cary Dermatology Center, Cary, North Carolina.
(6)Avenues Dermatology, Richmond, Virginia.
(7)Phoenix Skin, Phoenix, Arizona.
(8)SUNY Downstate Medical Center, New York City, New York, USA.

About 3 million surgical pigmented skin lesion biopsies are performed each year 
in the USA alone to diagnose fewer than 200 000 new cases of invasive melanoma 
and melanoma in situ using the current standard of care that includes visual 
assessment and histopathology. A recently described noninvasive adhesive 
patch-based gene expression rule-out test [pigmented lesion assay (PLA)] may be 
helpful in identifying high-risk pigmented skin lesions to aid with surgical 
biopsy decisions. The main objective of this utility study was to determine the 
real-world clinical performance of PLA use and assess how the PLA changes 
physician behavior in an observational cohort analysis of 381 patients assessed 
with the PLA. All (100%) of 51 PLA(+) test results were clinically managed with 
surgical biopsy. Of these, 19 (37%) were melanomas, corresponding to a number 
needed to biopsy of 2.7 and a biopsy ratio of 1.7. All melanomas were 
histopathologically classified as melanoma in situ or stage 1. Nearly all (99%) 
of 330 PLA(-) test results were clinically managed with surveillance. None of 
the three follow-up biopsies performed in the following 3-6 months, were 
diagnosed as melanoma histopathologically. The estimated sensitivity and 
specificity of the PLA from these data sets are 95 and 91%, respectively. 
Overall, 93% of PLA results positive for both LINC00518 and PRAME were diagnosed 
histopathologically as melanoma. PRAME-only and LINC00518-only lesions were 
melanomas histopathologically in 50 and 7%, respectively. The PLA alters 
clinical management of pigmented lesions and shows high clinical performance. 
The likelihood of positive histopathologic diagnosis of melanoma is higher in 
PLA results that are positive for both LINC00518 and PRAME.

DOI: 10.1097/CMR.0000000000000478
PMID: 30004988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Stem Cell Reports. 2018 Aug 14;11(2):497-513. doi:
10.1016/j.stemcr.2018.06.019.  Epub 2018 Jul 19.

MSX2 Initiates and Accelerates Mesenchymal Stem/Stromal Cell Specification of 
hPSCs by Regulating TWIST1 and PRAME.

Zhang L(1), Wang H(1), Liu C(1), Wu Q(1), Su P(1), Wu D(1), Guo J(2), Zhou W(2), 
Xu Y(1), Shi L(1), Zhou J(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Institute of Hematology & 
Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union 
Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China; Center for Stem Cell Medicine, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Department of Stem Cells and Regenerative 
Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China.
(2)School of Basic Medical Science and Cancer Research Institute, Central South 
University, Changsha 410013, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Experimental Hematology, Institute of Hematology & 
Blood Diseases Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union 
Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China; Center for Stem Cell Medicine, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences & Department of Stem Cells and Regenerative 
Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, Tianjin 300020, China. Electronic 
address: zhoujx@ihcams.ac.cn.

The gap in knowledge of the molecular mechanisms underlying differentiation of 
human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) into the mesenchymal cell lineages hinders 
the application of hPSCs for cell-based therapy. In this study, we identified a 
critical role of muscle segment homeobox 2 (MSX2) in initiating and accelerating 
the molecular program that leads to mesenchymal stem/stromal cell (MSC) 
differentiation from hPSCs. Genetic deletion of MSX2 impairs hPSC 
differentiation into MSCs. When aided with a cocktail of soluble molecules, MSX2 
ectopic expression induces hPSCs to form nearly homogeneous and fully functional 
MSCs. Mechanistically, MSX2 induces hPSCs to form neural crest cells, an 
intermediate cell stage preceding MSCs, and further differentiation by 
regulating TWIST1 and PRAME. Furthermore, we found that MSX2 is also required 
for hPSC differentiation into MSCs through mesendoderm and trophoblast. Our 
findings provide novel mechanistic insights into lineage specification of hPSCs 
to MSCs and effective strategies for applications of stem cells for regenerative 
medicine.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.stemcr.2018.06.019
PMCID: PMC6092836
PMID: 30033084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Am J Surg Pathol. 2018 Nov;42(11):1456-1465. doi:
10.1097/PAS.0000000000001134.

PRAME Expression in Melanocytic Tumors.

Lezcano C(1), Jungbluth AA(1), Nehal KS(2), Hollmann TJ(1), Busam KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology.
(2)Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer, New York, NY.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a melanoma-associated 
antigen that was isolated by autologous T cells in a melanoma patient. While 
frequent PRAME mRNA expression is well documented in cutaneous and ocular 
melanomas, little is known about PRAME protein expression in melanocytic tumors. 
In this study we examined the immunohistochemical expression of PRAME in 400 
melanocytic tumors, including 155 primary and 100 metastatic melanomas, and 145 
melanocytic nevi. Diffuse nuclear immunoreactivity for PRAME was found in 87% of 
metastatic and 83.2% of primary melanomas. Among melanoma subtypes, PRAME was 
diffusely expressed in 94.4% of acral melanomas, 92.5% of superficial spreading 
melanomas, 90% of nodular melanomas, 88.6% of lentigo maligna melanomas, and 35% 
of desmoplastic melanomas. When in situ and nondesmoplastic invasive melanoma 
components were present, PRAME expression was seen in both. Of the 140 cutaneous 
melanocytic nevi, 86.4% were completely negative for PRAME. Immunoreactivity for 
PRAME was seen, albeit usually only in a minor subpopulation of lesional 
melanocytes, in 13.6% of cutaneous nevi, including dysplastic nevi, common 
acquired nevi, traumatized/recurrent nevi, and Spitz nevi. Rare isolated 
junctional melanocytes with immunoreactivity for PRAME were also seen in solar 
lentigines and benign nonlesional skin. Our results suggest that 
immunohistochemical analysis for PRAME expression may be useful for diagnostic 
purposes to support a suspected diagnosis of melanoma. It may also be valuable 
for margin assessment of a known PRAME-positive melanoma, but its expression in 
nevi, solar lentigines, and benign nonlesional skin can represent a pitfall and 
merits further investigations to better assess the potential clinical utility of 
this marker.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001134
PMCID: PMC6631376
PMID: 30045064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Am J Ophthalmol. 2018 Nov;195:154-160. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2018.07.045. Epub
2018  Aug 6.

Gene Expression Profiling and PRAME Status Versus Tumor-Node-Metastasis Staging 
for Prognostication in Uveal Melanoma.

Cai L(1), Paez-Escamilla M(1), Walter SD(1), Tarlan B(1), Decatur CL(1), Perez 
BM(1), Harbour JW(2).

Author information:
(1)Ocular Oncology Service, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute and Sylvester 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, 
Miami, Florida, USA.
(2)Ocular Oncology Service, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute and Sylvester 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, 
Miami, Florida, USA. Electronic address: harbour@miami.edu.

PURPOSE: To compare the prognostic accuracy of gene expression profiling (GEP) 
combined with PRAME status vs the clinical Tumor-Node-Metastasis (TNM) staging 
in patients with uveal melanoma (UM).
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS: The study included 240 consecutive patients with UM. Tumors were 
assessed for GEP status (Class 1 or Class 2) using a validated 15-gene assay and 
PRAME expression status using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. TNM 
staging was according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer 8th edition. 
Statistical analysis included univariate and multivariate Cox proportional 
hazard models. Metastasis was the primary endpoint.
RESULTS: GEP was Class 1 in 128 (53.3%) cases and Class 2 in 112 (46.7%) cases. 
PRAME status was negative in 157 (65.4%) cases and positive in 83 (34.6%) cases. 
TNM was stage I in 26 (10.8%) cases, IIA in 67 (27.9%) cases, IIB in 50 (20.8%) 
cases, IIIA in 59 (24.6%) cases, and IIIB in 38 (15.8%) cases. Metastatic 
disease was detected in 59 (24.6%) cases after median follow-up of 29 months 
(mean 42 months; range 1-195 months). Variables associated with metastasis 
included (in order of decreasing significance): GEP class (P = 1.5 × 10-8), 
largest basal tumor diameter (P = 2.5 × 10-6), PRAME status (P = 2.6 × 10-6), 
and TNM stage (P = 3.7 × 10-6). The prognostic accuracy of an optimized 
3-category GEP/PRAME model (P = 8.6 × 10-14) was superior to an optimized TNM 
model (P = 1.3 × 10-5).
CONCLUSIONS: In UM, molecular prognostic testing using GEP and PRAME provides 
prognostic accuracy that is superior to TNM staging.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2018.07.045
PMCID: PMC6214741
PMID: 30092184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Breast. 2018 Dec;42:68-73. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.08.106. Epub 2018 Aug
29.

Expression of NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A3, PRAME and WT1 in different subgroups of breast 
cancer: An indication to immunotherapy?

Tessari A(1), Pilla L(1), Silvia D(1), Duca M(1), Paolini B(2), Carcangiu ML(2), 
Mariani L(3), de Braud FG(1), Cresta S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology 1, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(2)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Laboratory, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto 
Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy.
(3)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, 
Milan, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology 1, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto Nazionale dei 
Tumori, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: sara.cresta@istitutotumori.mi.it.

OBJECTIVES: Cancer Testis Antigens are immunogenic tumor-specific proteins. We 
investigated NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A3 and PRAME, in addition to WT1 expression in 
different Breast Cancer (BC) subtypes. We then evaluated the expression rate of 
NY-ESO-1 in early Triple Negative breast cancer (TNBC), and investigated whether 
its expression would be maintained or lost in the metastatic setting to explore 
possible immunotherapy indication.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Three subgroups of BC patients were selected by the 
expression of ER, PgR and Her2. Tissue microarray was performed on a total of 92 
Invasive BC. Sections were stained for NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A3, PRAME and WT1. The 
second cohort was composed by 26 metastatic TNBC patients from whom both the 
primary and secondary lesion tissues were available. Sections were stained for 
NY-ESO-1.
RESULTS: NY-ESO-1 was the only differentially expressed antigen and was absent 
in ER+ and ER-PgR + tumors, as for an exclusive expression of either NY-ESO-1 or 
at least one hormonal receptor (HR+). NY-ESO-1 was particularly represented in 
TNBC. No correlation has been found between MAGE-A3 and PRAME expression and 
subtype WT1 had low expression, except in the Her2+ group. In the second cohort, 
NY-ESO-1 was expressed in 12 and 24% of primary and metastatic lesions 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study defines a distinction between HR+ and HR-tumors through 
NY-ESO-1 expression. TNBC subgroup has the highest frequency of NY-ESO-1+ cases, 
and it could be the candidate population for the development of anti-NY-ESO-1 
vaccine, both in the adjuvant or metastatic setting, and for the selection of 
cases suitable for immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2018.08.106
PMID: 30189381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Skin Therapy Lett. 2018 Sep;23(5):1-4.

Non-Invasive Gene Expression Testing to Rule Out Melanoma.

Rivers JK(1), Copley MR(2), Svoboda R(3), Rigel DS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Skin Science, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada; Pacific Derm, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(2)Department of Dermatology and Skin Science, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(3)Department of Dermatology, New York University Medical Center, New York, NY, 
USA.

The Pigmented Lesion Assay (PLA) is a gene expression test that helps rule out 
melanoma and has the potential to reduce the need for surgical biopsies of 
atypical pigmented skin lesions. Utilizing a new technological platform for the 
non-invasive profiling of skin, the assay analyzes samples collected from 
adhesive patches for expression of two key genes (PRAME and LINC00518) known to 
be overexpressed in melanoma. The test result is binary (positive/negative) 
based on the detection of one or both genes. PLA positive cases are generally 
biopsied to establish the histopathologic diagosis, while PLA negative cases are 
considered for ongoing monitoring. The combination of visual inspection with 
histopathology, the current gold standard for melanoma diagnosis, has a 
relatively low negative predictive value (NPV) of approximately 83%, meaning 
that 17% of melanomas will be interpreted as benign lesions. In contrast, the 
PLA has a very high NPV (>99%). Further, with its high specificity (69-91%), use 
of the PLA can reduce the number of false positive samples subjected to 
histopathology review. By adding the PLA to the current care pathway, the number 
of surgical biopsies needed to find a melanoma (number needed to biopsy) is 
markedly reduced from 20-25 biopsies for dermatologists and 39 biopsies for 
physician assistants, to an average of 2.7. To date, unnecessary surgical 
procedures of benign lesions have been reduced by 88% based on a sample of more 
than 20,000 analyzed cases. This has resulted in fewer missed melanomas and 
significant cost savings to health care systems.

PMID: 30248161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jason Rivers has been an advisory board member, 
investigator, speaker, consultant, or received honoraria from Allergan, 
DermTech, Galderma, Janssen, Leo, MetaOptima, Regeneron, Sanofi, Valeant. 
Michael Copely has no conflicts to disclose. Ryan Svoboda participated in a 
fellowship program partly funded by Castle Biosciences and received and 
participated in an focus group for Castle Biosciences, for which he received an 
honorarium. Darrell Rigel is a consultant for DermTech.


272. J Invest Dermatol. 2019 May;139(5):1127-1134. doi:
10.1016/j.jid.2018.10.041.  Epub 2018 Nov 27.

Noninvasive Analysis of High-Risk Driver Mutations and Gene Expression Profiles 
in Primary Cutaneous Melanoma.

Ferris LK(1), Moy RL(2), Gerami P(3), Sligh JE(4), Jansen B(5), Yao Z(5), 
Cockerell CJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, USA. Electronic address: ferrlk@upmc.edu.
(2)RodeoDerm Moy Fincher Chips, Beverly Hills, California, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(4)Southern Arizona Veterans Affairs Healthcare System and University of 
Arizona, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
(5)DermTech, Inc., La Jolla, California, USA.
(6)Cockerell Dermatopathology, Dallas, Texas, USA.

Tools that help reduce the number of surgical biopsies performed on benign 
lesions have the potential to improve patient care. The pigmented lesion assay 
(PLA) is a noninvasive tool validated against histopathology that helps rule out 
melanoma and the need for surgical biopsies of atypical pigmented skin lesions. 
Genetic information is collected using adhesive patches and the expression of 
two genes, LINC and PRAME, is measured. By using genetic material collected 
noninvasively and to further validate the PLA, somatic hotspot mutations in 
genes known to be drivers of early melanoma development (BRAF other than V600E, 
NRAS, and the TERT promoter) can also be identified. The frequency of these 
hotspot mutations in samples of early melanoma was 77%, which is higher than the 
14% found in nonmelanoma samples (P < 0.0001). TERT promoter mutations were the 
most prevalent mutation type in PLA-positive melanomas; 82% of PLA-negative 
lesions had no mutations, and 97% of histopathologically confirmed melanomas 
were PLA and/or mutation positive (cohort 1, n = 103). Mutation frequencies were 
similar in prospectively collected real-world PLA samples (cohort 2, n = 519), 
in which 88% of PLA-negative samples had no mutations. Combining gene expression 
and mutation analyses enhances the ability to noninvasively detect early 
cutaneous melanoma.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jid.2018.10.041
PMID: 30500343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Oncoimmunology. 2018 Sep 11;7(12):e1507600. doi:
10.1080/2162402X.2018.1507600.  eCollection 2018.

PRAME and HLA Class I expression patterns make synovial sarcoma a suitable 
target for PRAME specific T-cell receptor gene therapy.

Luk SJ(1), van der Steen DM(1), Hagedoorn RS(1), Jordanova ES(2)(3), Schilham 
MW(4), Bovée JV(2), Cleven AH(2), Falkenburg JF(1), Szuhai K(5), Heemskerk 
MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Pathology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Center for Gynecological Oncology Amsterdam, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

Synovial sarcoma expresses multiple cancer testis antigens that could 
potentially be targeted by T-cell receptor (TCR) gene therapy. In this study we 
investigated whether PRAME-TCR-gene therapy could be an effective treatment for 
synovial sarcoma by investigating the potential of PRAME-specific T-cells to 
recognize sarcoma cells and by evaluating the expression patterns of PRAME and 
HLA class I (HLA-I) in synovial sarcoma tumor samples. All PRAME expressing 
sarcoma cell lines, including 2 primary synovial sarcoma cell cultures 
(passage < 3), were efficiently recognized by PRAME-specific T-cells. mRNA FISH 
demonstrated that PRAME was expressed in all synovial sarcoma samples, mostly in 
an homogeneous pattern. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated low HLA-I baseline 
expression in synovial sarcoma, but its expression was elevated in specific 
areas of the tumors, especially in biphasic components of biphasic synovial 
sarcoma. In 5/11 biphasic synovial sarcoma patients and in 1/17 monophasic 
synovial sarcoma patients, elevated HLA-I on tumor cells was correlated with 
infiltration of T-cells in these specific areas. In conclusion, low-baseline 
expression of HLA-I in synovial sarcoma is elevated in biphasic areas and in 
areas with densely infiltrating T-cells, which, in combination with homogeneous 
and high PRAME expression, makes synovial sarcoma potentially a suitable 
candidate for PRAME-specific TCR-gene therapy.

DOI: 10.1080/2162402X.2018.1507600
PMCID: PMC6279314
PMID: 30524904


274. J Transl Med. 2019 Jan 3;17(1):9. doi: 10.1186/s12967-018-1757-3.

PRAME promotes epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in triple negative breast 
cancer.

Al-Khadairi G(1), Naik A(2), Thomas R(2), Al-Sulaiti B(2), Rizly S(2), Decock 
J(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)College of Health and Life Sciences (CHLS), Hamad Bin Khalifa University 
(HBKU), Doha, Qatar.
(2)Cancer Research Center, Qatar Biomedical Research Institute (QBRI), Qatar 
Foundation, Doha, Qatar.
(3)College of Health and Life Sciences (CHLS), Hamad Bin Khalifa University 
(HBKU), Doha, Qatar. jdecock@hbku.edu.qa.
(4)Cancer Research Center, Qatar Biomedical Research Institute (QBRI), Qatar 
Foundation, Doha, Qatar. jdecock@hbku.edu.qa.

BACKGROUND: The triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) paradox marks a major 
challenge in the treatment-decision making process. TNBC patients generally 
respond better to neoadjuvant chemotherapy compared to other breast cancer 
patients; however, they have a substantial higher risk of disease recurrence. We 
evaluated the expression of the tumor-associated antigen PReferentially Antigen 
expressed in MElanoma (PRAME) as a prognostic biomarker in breast cancer and 
explored its role in cell migration and invasion, key hallmarks of progressive 
and metastatic disease.
METHODS: TCGA and GTeX datasets were interrogated to assess the expression of 
PRAME in relation to overall and disease-free survival. The role of PRAME in 
cell migration and invasion was investigated using gain- and loss-of-function 
TNBC cell line models.
RESULTS: We show that PRAME promotes migration and invasion of TNBC cells 
through changes in expression of E-cadherin, N-cadherin, vimentin and ZEB1, core 
markers of an epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Mechanistic analysis of 
PRAME-overexpressing cells showed an upregulation of 11 genes (SNAI1, TCF4, 
TWIST1, FOXC2, IL1RN, MMP2, SOX10, WNT11, MMP3, PDGFRB, and JAG1) and 
downregulation of 2 genes (BMP7 and TSPAN13). Gene ontology analyses revealed 
enrichment of genes that are dysregulated in ovarian and esophageal cancer and 
are involved in transcription and apoptosis. In line with this, interrogation of 
TCGA and GTEx data demonstrated an increased PRAME expression in ovarian and 
esophageal tumor tissues in addition to breast tumors where it is associated 
with worse survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that PRAME plays a tumor-promoting role in 
triple negative breast cancer by increasing cancer cell motility through 
EMT-gene reprogramming. Therefore, PRAME could serve as a prognostic biomarker 
and/or therapeutic target in TNBC.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-018-1757-3
PMCID: PMC6317205
PMID: 30602372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Br J Haematol. 2019 Aug;186(4):e91-e94. doi: 10.1111/bjh.15922. Epub 2019
Apr  15.

Detection of a deletion at 22q11 locus involving ZNF280A/ZNF280B/PRAME/GGTLC2 in 
B-cell malignancies: simply a consequence of an immunoglobulin lambda light 
chain rearrangement.

Mraz M(1)(2), Pospisilova S(2).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Medicine, CEITEC Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Haematology and Oncology, University 
Hospital Brno and Faculty of Medicine MU, Brno, Czech Republic.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.15922
PMID: 30989644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2019 Jul;257(7):1541-1545. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-019-04335-w. Epub 2019 May 7.

Relationship between clinical features, GEP class, and PRAME expression in uveal 
melanoma.

Schefler AC(1)(2), Koca E(3), Bernicker EH(3), Correa ZM(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Retina Consultants of Houston, 6560 Fannin Street, Ste.750, Houston, TX, 
77030, USA. acsmd@houstonretina.com.
(2)Blanton Eye Institute, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA. 
acsmd@houstonretina.com.
(3)Cancer Center, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH, USA.
(5)Wilmer Eye Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND: Metastatic risk for uveal melanoma (UM) patients can be 
characterized by gene expression profiling (GEP) (Castle Biosciences, 
Friendswood, TX). Class 1A tumors carry low metastatic risk; class 1B tumors 
have intermediate risk; and class 2 tumors have high risk. Preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a tumor-associated antigen which is 
expressed in various neoplasms including UM. Recently, PRAME expression in uveal 
melanoma was first recognized to confer an additional metastatic risk beyond GEP 
status.
METHODS: This was a retrospective, consecutive, multicenter chart review study. 
All patients diagnosed with UM at two major ocular oncology centers from August 
2016 to February 2018 who underwent both GEP and PRAME mRNA expression testing 
were included. Patient age at diagnosis, gender, and tumor variables such as 
thickness, largest basal diameter (LBD), tumor volume, TNM stage, and GEP class 
and PRAME status were extracted from the medical records. Statistical analysis 
was performed to analyze the association of PRAME +/- status with all clinical 
and molecular variables.
RESULTS: One hundred forty-eight UM patients were identified. TNM was stage I in 
51 (34.5%), stage IIA in 33 (22.3%), stage IIB in 34 (23%), stage IIIA in 20 
(13.5%), and stage IIIB in 10 (6.8%) patients. Fifty-five patients (37%) were 
PRAME-positive, a significant fraction. There was no association between higher 
TNM stage and positive PRAME status (p = 0.129). PRAME expression was found to 
be independent of gender, patient age, and tumor thickness. PRAME expression was 
statistically associated with LBD and tumor volume. Higher GEP class was 
associated with higher TNM staging (p < 0.001). Worsening GEP class was 
associated with PRAME+ status with 28% of GEP class 1A tumors having PRAME+ 
status, 29% of GEP class 1B tumors having PRAME+ status, and 56% of GEP class 2 
tumors having PRAME+ status.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study cohort, PRAME+ status was significantly associated 
with LBD and tumor volume as well as worsening GEP class. Nearly a third of GEP 
class 1A tumors expressed PRAME. Given the recent published data on increased 
metastatic risk among patients with tumors expressing PRAME, this study suggests 
that a significant fraction of 1A patients may harbor an increased metastatic 
risk. Future large, multicenter studies with long-term follow-up will clarify 
this finding.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-019-04335-w
PMID: 31065847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Cancer Lett. 2019 Sep 10;459:1-12. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2019.05.032. Epub
2019  May 28.

Patient-derived cell line models revealed therapeutic targets and molecular 
mechanisms underlying disease progression of high grade serous ovarian cancer.

Kreuzinger C(1), von der Decken I(1), Wolf A(1), Gamperl M(1), Koller J(1), 
Karacs J(1), Pfaffinger S(1), Bartl T(1), Reinthaller A(1), Grimm C(1), Singer 
CF(2), Braicu EI(3), Cunnea P(4), Gourley C(5), Smeets D(6), Boeckx B(6), 
Lambrechts D(6), Perco P(7), Horvat R(8), Berns EMJJ(9), Cacsire Castillo-Tong 
D(10).

Author information:
(1)Translational Gynecology Group, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical University of Vienna, 1090, Vienna, 
Austria.
(2)Department of Gynecology and Gynecologic Oncology, Gynecologic Cancer Unit, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical University of Vienna, 1090, Vienna, 
Austria.
(3)Tumor Bank Ovarian Cancer Network, Department of Gynecology, Charité 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 13353, Berlin, Germany; Department of Gynecology, 
Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 13353, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Ovarian Cancer Action Research Centre, Department of Surgery and Cancer, 
Imperial College London, London, W12 0HS, United Kingdom.
(5)Nicola Murray Centre for Ovarian Cancer Research, Cancer Research UK 
Edinburgh Centre, MRC IGMM, University of Edinburgh, Western General Hospital, 
Edinburgh, EH4 2XR, United Kingdom.
(6)KU Leuven, Department of Human Genetics, Laboratory for Translational 
Genetics, 3000, Leuven, Belgium; VIB, VIB Center for Cancer Biology, Laboratory 
for Translational Genetics, 3000, Leuven, Belgium.
(7)Emergentec Biodevelopment GmbH, 1180, Vienna, Austria.
(8)Department of Clinical Pathology, Medical University of Vienna, 1090, Vienna, 
Austria.
(9)Department of Medical Oncology, Erasmus MC Cancer Institute, 3000 CA, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(10)Translational Gynecology Group, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical University of Vienna, 1090, Vienna, 
Austria. Electronic address: dan.cacsire-castillo@meduniwien.ac.at.

High grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) is the most frequent type of ovarian 
cancer. Most patients have primary response to platinum-based chemotherapy but 
frequently relapse, which leads to patient death. A lack of well documented and 
characterized patient-derived HGSOC cell lines is so far a major barrier to 
define tumor specific therapeutic targets and to study the molecular mechanisms 
underlying disease progression. We established 34 patient-derived HGSOC cell 
lines and characterized them at cellular and molecular level. Particularly, we 
demonstrated that a cancer-testis antigen PRAME and Estrogen Receptor could 
serve as therapeutic targets. Notably, data from the cell lines did not 
demonstrate acquired resistance due to tumor recurrence that matched with 
clinical observations. Finally, we presented that all HGSOC had no or very low 
CDKN1A (p21) expression due to loss of wild-type TP53, suggesting that loss of 
cell cycle control is the determinant for tumorigenesis and progression. In 
conclusion, patient-derived cell lines reveal that PRAME is a potential tumor 
specific therapeutic target in HGSOC and counteracting the down-regulation of 
p21 caused by loss of wild-type TP53 might be the key to impede disease 
progression.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2019.05.032
PMID: 31150822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Cell Death Differ. 2020 Jan;27(1):345-362. doi: 10.1038/s41418-019-0359-9.
Epub  2019 Jun 11.

A novel member of Prame family, Gm12794c, counteracts retinoic acid 
differentiation through the methyltransferase activity of PRC2.

Napolitano G(#)(1), Tagliaferri D(#)(2), Fusco S(3), Cirillo C(3), De Martino 
I(3), Addeo M(3), Mazzone P(2), Russo NA(2), Natale F(4)(5), Cardoso MC(4), De 
Luca L(6), Lamorte D(6), La Rocca F(6), De Felice M(7), Falco G(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Naples 'Federico II', Naples, Italy. 
giuliana.napolitano@unina.it.
(2)Biogem, Istituto di Biologia e Genetica Molecolare, Via Camporeale, Ariano 
Irpino (AV), Italy.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Naples 'Federico II', Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Biology, Technische Universität Darmstadt, 64287, Darmstadt, 
Germany.
(5)IRBM Science Park S.p.A., Biology Unit, Naples, Italy.
(6)IRCCS-CROB, Referral Cancer Center of Basilicata, Rionero in Vulture, Italy.
(7)IEOS, CNR, Naples, Italy.
(8)Department of Biology, University of Naples 'Federico II', Naples, Italy. 
geppino.falco@unina.it.
(9)Biogem, Istituto di Biologia e Genetica Molecolare, Via Camporeale, Ariano 
Irpino (AV), Italy. geppino.falco@unina.it.
(10)IEOS, CNR, Naples, Italy. geppino.falco@unina.it.
(#)Contributed equally

Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) fluctuate among different levels of pluripotency 
defined as metastates. Sporadically, metastable cellular populations convert to 
a highly pluripotent metastate that resembles the preimplantation two-cell 
embryos stage (defined as 2C stage) in terms of transcriptome, DNA methylation, 
and chromatin structure. Recently, we found that the retinoic acid (RA) 
signaling leads to a robust increase of cells specifically expressing 2C genes, 
such as members of the Prame family. Here, we show that Gm12794c, one of the 
most highly upregulated Prame members, and previously identified as a key player 
for the maintenance of pluripotency, has a functional role in conferring ESCs 
resistance to RA signaling. In particular, RA-dependent expression of Gm12794c 
induces a ground state-like metastate, as evaluated by activation of 2C-specific 
genes, global DNA hypomethylation and rearrangement of chromatin similar to that 
observed in naive totipotent preimplantation epiblast cells and 2C-like cells. 
Mechanistically, we demonstrated that Gm12794c inhibits Cdkn1A gene expression 
through the polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) histone methyltransferase 
activity. Collectively, our data highlight a molecular mechanism employed by 
ESCs to counteract retinoic acid differentiation stimuli and contribute to shed 
light on the molecular mechanisms at grounds of ESCs naive pluripotency-state 
maintenance.

DOI: 10.1038/s41418-019-0359-9
PMCID: PMC7206114
PMID: 31186534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


279. Histopathology. 2019 Nov;75(5):672-682. doi: 10.1111/his.13944. Epub 2019
Oct 2.

The immune microenvironment and expression of PD-L1, PD-1, PRAME and MHC I in 
salivary duct carcinoma.

Xu B(1), Jungbluth AA(1), Frosina D(1), Alzumaili B(1), Aleynick N(1), 
Slodkowska E(2), Higgins K(3), Ho A(4), Morris L(5), Ghossein R(1), Katabi N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Molecular Diagnostics, Sunnybrook 
Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, 
USA.

AIMS: Salivary duct carcinoma (SDC) is an aggressive salivary malignancy that 
results in high mortality rates and is often resistant to chemotherapy. 
Anti-programmed death-1 (PD-1)/programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) checkpoint 
inhibitors have led to dramatic improvements in patients with various cancers. 
Other immunotherapeutic approaches, e.g. cancer vaccines, have shown promising 
results. Cancer testis antigens, e.g. preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME), are regarded as promising vaccine targets because of their 
tumour-specific expression pattern.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We analysed the immunoexpression of PD-L1, PD-1, major 
histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) and PRAME in 53 SDCs. The 
immunoexpression levels of PD-L1 in tumour cells (TCs) and immune cells (ICs), 
PD-1 in ICs, PRAME in TCs and MHC I in TCs were analysed, and were correlated 
with outcome. PRAME expression was seen in 83% of SDCs. No PRAME staining was 
present in normal salivary gland tissue. With the three established diagnostic 
algorithms proposed for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, the criteria 
being a combined positive score of ≥1, TC% ≥1%, and TC% ≥25%, 35 (66%), 17 (32%) 
and three cases (6%), respectively, were deemed to be positive for PD-L1. 
PD-1-positive ICs were seen in 35 (66%) cases. MHC I down-regulation was seen in 
82% of SDCs. There was a significant correlation among PD-L1 expression in ICs, 
PD-1 expression in ICs, and PRAME expression in TCs. PD-L1 expression in TCs and 
lack of PD-1 expression in ICs were associated with decreased disease-specific 
survival in SDC patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Alterations of the tumour immune microenvironment are common in 
SDCs, including expression of PD-1/PD-L1 and PRAME, which opens the way to 
potential novel immune therapies, such as cancer vaccination and PD-1/PD-L1 
blockade, in these tumours.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.13944
PMCID: PMC6812589
PMID: 31237963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Cancers (Basel). 2019 Jul 15;11(7):984. doi: 10.3390/cancers11070984.

Cancer Testis Antigens and Immunotherapy: Where Do We Stand in the Targeting of 
PRAME?

Al-Khadairi G(1), Decock J(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)College of Health and Life Sciences (CHLS), Hamad Bin Khalifa University 
(HBKU), Qatar Foundation (QF), Doha P.O. Box 34110, Qatar.
(2)College of Health and Life Sciences (CHLS), Hamad Bin Khalifa University 
(HBKU), Qatar Foundation (QF), Doha P.O. Box 34110, Qatar. 
juliedecock80@gmail.com.
(3)Cancer Research Center, Qatar Biomedical Research Institute (QBRI), Hamad Bin 
Khalifa University (HBKU), Qatar Foundation (QF), Doha P.O. Box 34110, Qatar. 
juliedecock80@gmail.com.

PRAME or PReferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma is a testis-selective 
cancer testis antigen (CTA) with restricted expression in somatic tissues and 
re-expression in various cancers. It is one of the most widely studied CTAs and 
has been associated with the outcome and risk of metastasis. Although little is 
known about its pathophysiological function, PRAME has gained interest as a 
candidate target for immunotherapy. This review provides an update on our 
knowledge on PRAME expression and function in healthy and malignant cells and 
the current immunotherapeutic strategies targeting PRAME with their specific 
challenges and opportunities. We also highlight some of the features that 
position PRAME as a unique cancer testis antigen to target.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers11070984
PMCID: PMC6678383
PMID: 31311081

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


281. Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol. 2019 Dec;392(12):1551-1560. doi: 
10.1007/s00210-019-01701-7. Epub 2019 Jul 29.

Growth inhibitor of human hepatic carcinoma HepG2 cells by evodiamine is 
associated with downregulation of PRAME.

Zhu H(1), Ge K(1), Lu J(1), Jia C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Hangzhou First People's 
Hospital, The Affiliated Hospital of Medical School of Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, 310006, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Hepatopancreatobiliary Surgery, Hangzhou First People's 
Hospital, The Affiliated Hospital of Medical School of Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou, 310006, Zhejiang, China. jiachk@sohu.com.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients have low 5-year survival due to the 
delayed diagnosis, so it is necessary to develop an alternative treatment. 
Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) has a high expression in 
HCC patients, and the effects of evodiamine on HCC are less characterized, 
although evodiamine has anti-tumor activities in several tumor types. To 
investigate the effects of evodiamine on PRAME expression, the in vitro PRAME 
expression in HepG2 cells after incubated with evodiamine was determined by 
RT-PCR and western blot. Cell viability, migration, invasion, and apoptosis of 
evodiamine-incubated HepG2 cells were evaluated by Cell Counting Kit-8, wound 
healing, transwell assay, and Annexin V-FITC/PI double-staining assay, 
respectively. To evaluate the mechanism of the regulation of evodiamine on the 
PRAME expression, chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with quantitative PCR 
was employed. Xenograft model was used to evaluate the effects of evodiamine on 
tumor growth, survival rate, and the PRAME expression. The PRAME expression was 
inhibited in evodiamine-treated HepG2 cells in vitro and in vivo. The tumor 
metastasis and growth were inhibited resulting from evodiamine incubation. The 
evodiamine inhibited the PRAME expression through trimethylation of H3K27. In 
this study, evodiamine contributes to in vitro and in vivo tumor cell growth 
inhibition. To achieve this inhibition, the PRAME expression may be repressed 
through trimethylation resulting from epigenetic regulation of evodiamine.

DOI: 10.1007/s00210-019-01701-7
PMID: 31359090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Mod Pathol. 2019 Dec;32(12):1727-1733. doi: 10.1038/s41379-019-0335-4. Epub
2019  Aug 2.

Analyses of molecular and histopathologic features and expression of PRAME by 
immunohistochemistry in mucosal melanomas.

Toyama A(1), Siegel L(2), Nelson AC(3), Najmuddin M(3), Bu L(3), LaRue R(4), 
Henzler C(4), Caicedo-Granados E(5), Giubellino A(3), Li F(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA. toyama@umn.edu.
(2)Division of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(4)Minnesota Supercomputing Institute, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, 
USA.
(5)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA. lif@umn.edu.
(7)Lillehei Heart Institute and Masonic Cancer Center, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA. lif@umn.edu.

Mucosal melanomas are rare, and less is known about the biomarkers of this 
subtype in comparison to cutaneous or uveal melanomas. Preferentially expressed 
antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has been studied as a tool for prognostication of 
uveal melanomas, and immunotherapy against PRAME-expressing tumor cells has 
already shown promise. Our goal was to retrospectively analyze 29 cases of 
mucosal melanomas at our institution to determine if any molecular and 
histopathologic prognosticators could be identified, as well as to study PRAME 
expression and its association with prognosis. We found that the majority of 
mucosal melanomas expressed PRAME and a high PRAME expression score predicted a 
poor prognosis. There was no association between prognosis and the 
histomorphologic features analyzed, such as presence of spindle cell or 
epithelioid predominance. BRAF mutations were absent in 16 of 16 cases tested. 
Pathogenic NRAS mutations were detected in 3 of 11 cases tested and were 
associated with shorter overall survival compared to those without NRAS 
alterations, but the presence of NRAS mutations did not correlate with PRAME 
expression. In conclusion, an increase in PRAME expression and the presence of a 
pathogenic NRAS were both associated with a worse prognosis in mucosal 
melanomas.

DOI: 10.1038/s41379-019-0335-4
PMCID: PMC6881537
PMID: 31375769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure/Conflict of Interest This work was 
partially presented as a poster presentation at the USCAP 2019 Annual Meeting in 
National Harbor, MD, in March 16–21. The authors declare that they have no 
conflict of interest.


283. Cancer Manag Res. 2019 Jul 16;11:6467-6476. doi: 10.2147/CMAR.S205296. 
eCollection 2019.

T cells targeting multiple tumor-associated antigens as a postremission 
treatment to prevent or delay relapse in acute myeloid leukemia.

Xue L(1), Hu Y(1), Wang J(1), Liu X(1), Wang X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of USTC, Division of 
Life Science and Medicine, University of Sciences and Technology of China, 
Hefei, Anhui 230001, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Hematology, Anhui Provincial Hospital, Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei, Anhui, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Relapse is a major problem in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and 
adversely affects survival. Tumor-associated antigen-specific cytotoxic T 
lymphocyte (TAA-CTLs)-based therapy was introduced and increasingly used 
clinically to kill tumor cells via tumor antigen activation.
METHOD: In this study, we expanded autologous lymphocytes reactive to five TAA 
(NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A3, WT1, Survivin, and PRAME) and evaluated its safety and 
efficacy in 9 patients with AML at high risk of relapse.
RESULTS: Before first TAA-CTL infusion, 5 patients were minimal residual disease 
(MRD) positive, whereas 4 were MRD negative. Patients received TAA-CTL infusion 
for 1-3 times. None of them had obvious adverse reactions during or post the 
infusion. Of the 4 MRD-negative patients who were infused with TAA-CTLs, one 
developed relapsed disease. Among 5 MRD+ patients, there was a demonstrable 
antileukemic effect of the TAA-CTLs alone without any concomitant chemotherapy 
in 2 patients, as demonstrated by the negative of MRD in bone marrow after 
TAA-CTL infusion.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, we have observed preliminary indications of activity 
and safety after administration of autologous TAA-CTLs in patients with AML. The 
ultimate question of clinical efficacy, however, will need to be addressed in a 
larger trial with larger homogeneous patient population.

DOI: 10.2147/CMAR.S205296
PMCID: PMC6642655
PMID: 31406473

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests in this work.


284. Eur J Haematol. 2019 Nov;103(5):527. doi: 10.1111/ejh.13312. Epub 2019 Aug
28.

Wilms' tumor and preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma in patients with 
myeloid neoplasms treated with azacytidine.

Murphy PT(1), Moran S(1), Quinn J(1), Glavey S(1), Kennedy P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Beaumont Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.13312
PMID: 31407407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Oncol. 2019 Jul 30;2019:7239206. doi: 10.1155/2019/7239206. eCollection
2019.

Not Only Mutations Matter: Molecular Picture of Acute Myeloid Leukemia Emerging 
from Transcriptome Studies.

Handschuh L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry Polish Academy of Sciences, Poznan, Poland.

The last two decades of genome-scale research revealed a complex molecular 
picture of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). On the one hand, a number of mutations 
were discovered and associated with AML diagnosis and prognosis; some of them 
were introduced into diagnostic tests. On the other hand, transcriptome studies, 
which preceded AML exome and genome sequencing, remained poorly translated into 
clinics. Nevertheless, gene expression studies significantly contributed to the 
elucidation of AML pathogenesis and indicated potential therapeutic directions. 
The power of transcriptomic approach lies in its comprehensiveness; we can 
observe how genome manifests its function in a particular type of cells and 
follow many genes in one test. Moreover, gene expression measurement can be 
combined with mutation detection, as high-impact mutations are often present in 
transcripts. This review sums up 20 years of transcriptome research devoted to 
AML. Gene expression profiling (GEP) revealed signatures distinctive for 
selected AML subtypes and uncovered the additional within-subtype heterogeneity. 
The results were particularly valuable in the case of AML with normal karyotype 
which concerns up to 50% of AML cases. With the use of GEP, new classes of the 
disease were identified and prognostic predictors were proposed. A plenty of 
genes were detected as overexpressed in AML when compared to healthy control, 
including KIT, BAALC, ERG, MN1, CDX2, WT1, PRAME, and HOX genes. High expression 
of these genes constitutes usually an unfavorable prognostic factor. 
Upregulation of FLT3 and NPM1 genes, independent on their mutation status, was 
also reported in AML and correlated with poor outcome. However, transcriptome is 
not limited to the protein-coding genes; other types of RNA molecules exist in a 
cell and regulate genome function. It was shown that microRNA (miRNA) profiles 
differentiated AML groups and predicted outcome not worse than protein-coding 
gene profiles. For example, upregulation of miR-10a, miR-10b, and miR-196b and 
downregulation of miR-192 were found as typical of AML with NPM1 mutation 
whereas overexpression of miR-155 was associated with FLT3-internal tandem 
duplication (FLT3-ITD). Development of high-throughput technologies and 
microarray replacement by next generation sequencing (RNA-seq) enabled 
uncovering a real variety of leukemic cell transcriptomes, reflected by gene 
fusions, chimeric RNAs, alternatively spliced transcripts, miRNAs, piRNAs, long 
noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), and their special type, circular RNAs. Many of them 
can be considered as AML biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets. The 
relations between particular RNA puzzles and other components of leukemic cells 
and their microenvironment, such as exosomes, are now under investigation. 
Hopefully, the results of this research will shed the light on these aspects of 
AML pathogenesis which are still not completely understood.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/7239206
PMCID: PMC6699387
PMID: 31467542

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares that she has no conflicts of 
interest.


286. Virchows Arch. 2020 Apr;476(4):535-542. doi: 10.1007/s00428-019-02661-2.
Epub  2019 Sep 2.

Evaluation of cancer testis antigen (CT10, PRAME) and MHC I expression in 
high-grade urothelial carcinoma of the bladder.

Hodgson A(1)(2), Jungbluth AA(3), Katabi N(3), Xu B(3), Downes MR(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Anatomic Pathology, Department of Laboratory Medicine and 
Molecular Diagnostics, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue, 
Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, Canada.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 1 
King's College Circle, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Avenue, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Division of Anatomic Pathology, Department of Laboratory Medicine and 
Molecular Diagnostics, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue, 
Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, Canada. michelle.downes@sunnybrook.ca.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 1 
King's College Circle, Toronto, ON, Canada. michelle.downes@sunnybrook.ca.

Immunotherapeutic strategies are increasingly used in the treatment of a number 
of malignancies including high-grade urothelial carcinoma (HGUC) of the bladder. 
Because of this, detailed and accurate assessment of the tumor immune 
microenvironment is paramount. In this study, we aimed to correlate the 
composition of the tumor immune microenvironment with oncologic outcome and the 
expression of two cancer testis antigens (CTAs), CT10 and PRAME, potential 
cancer vaccine targets, as well as major histocompatibility complex I (MHC I), a 
molecule associated with tumor immune escape and resistance to immunotherapy. 
Triplicate tissue microarrays (TMAs) were constructed using 207 cases of HGUC of 
the bladder. Oncologic outcome data was gathered for each case. Consecutive 
sections from the TMA blocks were stained with CD3, CD4, CD8, FOXP3, PD1, PD-L1, 
CT10, PRAME, and MHC I. Twenty-one percent and 15% of cases expressed CT10 and 
PRAME, respectively. Eighty-eight percent of cases showed absent or decreased 
MHC I expression. CT10-expressing tumors showed a significantly worse disease 
specific survival (p = 0.007, hazard ratio 2.245, confidence interval 
1.223-4.122). CT10, PRAME, and MHC I expression significantly correlated with 
other some immune parameters. CT10 and PRAME are expressed in a subset of HGUC 
and CTA and MHC I expression correlate with a number of important immune 
parameters. Together, these findings highlight the potential for exploring novel 
immune therapeutic strategies in HGUC. Additional studies evaluating the 
clinical relevance of these findings are warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-019-02661-2
PMCID: PMC8596305
PMID: 31485721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Am J Surg Pathol. 2020 Jan;44(1):11-20. doi: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001350.

CD24 and PRAME Are Novel Grading and Prognostic Indicators for Pineal 
Parenchymal Tumors of Intermediate Differentiation.

Wu X(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang W(1)(5), Lai X(1)(2)(3), Zhou Y(1)(2)(3), Zhou 
X(1)(2)(3), Li J(1)(2)(3), Liang Y(1)(2)(3), Zhu X(1)(2)(3), Ren X(1)(2)(3), 
Ding Y(1)(2)(3), Liang L(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University.
(2)Department of Pathology, Southern Medical University.
(3)Guangdong Province Key Laboratory of Molecular Tumor Pathology.
(4)Department of Pathology, the People's Hospital of China Three Gorges 
University, Yichang, People's Republic of China.
(5)General Hospital of Southern Theater Command, People's Liberation Army of 
China, Guangzhou.

The pineal parenchymal tumors of intermediate differentiation (PPTIDs) are 
extremely rare tumor entities. They exhibit low-risk (grade II) and high-risk 
(grade III) malignancies, which may lead to different therapies and prognosis. 
However, the histological grading criteria remains elusive, and novel biomarkers 
may be helpful to differentiate the grade of PPTIDs. Immunohistochemical 
staining for CD24, PRAME, POU4F2, and HOXD13, and their clinicopathologic 
analyses were performed in pineal parenchymal tumors and other tumors in the 
pineal region. CD24 and PRAME were expressed in 9/11 (81.8%) and 8/11(72.7%) 
cases of PPTIDs grade III, compared with 6/18 (33.3%) and 5/18(27.8%) cases of 
PPTIDs grade II. The levels of CD24 and PRAME were significantly higher in 
PPTIDs grade III than grade II. However, there were no differences of HOXD13 and 
POU4F2 expression levels in PPTIDs grade II and grade III. Interestingly, high 
expression of CD24 and PRAME were prevalently found in high-grade tumors of the 
central nervous system. In addition, PPTIDs patients with high expression levels 
of CD24 and PRAME exhibited a significant shorter survival time. The results of 
PPTIDs grading by CD24 and PRAME were mostly consistent with WHO criteria, 
except for two cases. According to the prognostic information of patients, we 
found that the combination of CD24 and PRAME expression for grading PPTIDs might 
be more valuable than WHO criteria only. CD24 and PRAME are novel markers for 
grading and prognostic evaluation of PPTIDs that may be helpful to determine the 
therapeutic decision for PPTIDs patients.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001350
PMID: 31567202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Am J Surg Pathol. 2020 Apr;44(4):503-508. doi: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001393.

Immunohistochemistry for PRAME in the Distinction of Nodal Nevi From Metastatic 
Melanoma.

Lezcano C(1), Pulitzer M, Moy AP, Hollmann TJ, Jungbluth AA, Busam KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY.

The distinction of metastatic melanoma from melanocytic nevi in lymph nodes can 
on occasion be difficult. As diffuse immunohistochemical (IHC) PRAME 
(PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) expression is detected in the 
majority of primary and metastatic melanomas, but rarely in nevi, we reasoned 
that PRAME could be a useful adjunct marker for the diagnosis of melanocytes in 
lymph nodes. In this study, we examined 45 nodal melanocytic deposits comprising 
30 nodal nevi and 15 melanoma metastases. The latter were diagnostically not 
straightforward because they either coexisted with nodal nevi or were present in 
perinodal fibrous tissue. All nodal nevi (30/30) were negative for PRAME, 
whereas all melanoma metastases (15/15) were diffusely positive for PRAME IHC. 
We additionally report the novel use of a PRAME/Melan A dual-label immunostain. 
Our results show that PRAME IHC may be useful in the assessment of 
diagnostically challenging nodal melanocytic deposits, such as intraparenchymal 
nodal nevi, metastases confined to the capsular fibrous tissue, or in the 
setting of small metastases coexisting with a nodal nevus in the same lymph 
node.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001393
PMCID: PMC7071962
PMID: 31633488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Cancer Lett. 2020 Jun 1;479:54-60. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2019.10.024. Epub
2019  Oct 18.

Cancer testis antigens in sarcoma: Expression, function and immunotherapeutic 
application.

Wei R(1), Dean DC(2), Thanindratarn P(3), Hornicek FJ(4), Guo W(5), Duan Z(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Sarcoma Biology Laboratory, David Geffen 
School of Medicine at UCLA, 615 Charles E. Young Dr. South, Los Angeles, CA, 
90095, USA; Musculoskeletal Tumor Center, Peking University People's Hospital, 
No. 11 Xizhimen South Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100044, China. 
Electronic address: rwei@mednet.ucla.edu.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Sarcoma Biology Laboratory, David Geffen 
School of Medicine at UCLA, 615 Charles E. Young Dr. South, Los Angeles, CA, 
90095, USA. Electronic address: ddean@mednet.ucla.edu.
(3)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Sarcoma Biology Laboratory, David Geffen 
School of Medicine at UCLA, 615 Charles E. Young Dr. South, Los Angeles, CA, 
90095, USA. Electronic address: pthanindratarn@mednet.ucla.edu.
(4)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Sarcoma Biology Laboratory, David Geffen 
School of Medicine at UCLA, 615 Charles E. Young Dr. South, Los Angeles, CA, 
90095, USA. Electronic address: fhornicek@mednet.ucla.edu.
(5)Musculoskeletal Tumor Center, Peking University People's Hospital, No. 11 
Xizhimen South Street, Xicheng District, Beijing, 100044, China. Electronic 
address: bonetumor@163.com.
(6)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Sarcoma Biology Laboratory, David Geffen 
School of Medicine at UCLA, 615 Charles E. Young Dr. South, Los Angeles, CA, 
90095, USA. Electronic address: zduan@mednet.ucla.edu.

Sarcomas are a group of heterogeneous malignancies of mesenchymal origin. 
Patient outcomes remain especially grim for those with recurrent or metastatic 
disease, and current therapeutic strategies have not significantly improved 
outcomes over the past few decades. This has led to a number of studies 
assessing novel therapies. Cancer testis antigens (CTAs) are tumor-associated 
antigens with physiologic expression in the testis and various malignancies, 
including sarcomas. Genes encoding CTAs include MAGE, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, 
TRAG-3/CSAGE, and SSX. The importance and function of CTAs in tumorigenesis have 
gained recognition in recent years. They are also proving as robust diagnostic 
and prognostic biomarkers. Therapeutically, antigens derived from CTAs are 
highly recognizable by T lymphocytes and therefore capable of generating a 
potent antitumor immune response. CTAs are, therefore, promising targets for 
novel immunotherapies. Here we review the emerging works on expression, 
function, and immunotherapeutic application of CTAs in sarcoma therapy.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2019.10.024
PMID: 31634526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interest.


290. Ann Surg Oncol. 2020 Jun;27(6):2071-2080. doi: 10.1245/s10434-019-07985-6.
Epub  2019 Oct 28.

PRAME as a Potential Biomarker for Liver Metastasis of Gastric Cancer.

Baba H(1)(2), Kanda M(3), Sawaki K(2), Umeda S(2), Miwa T(2), Shimizu D(2), 
Tanaka C(2), Kobayashi D(2), Fujiwara M(2), Kodera Y(2), Fujii T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Science, Graduate School of Medicine and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery (Surgery II), Nagoya University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery (Surgery II), Nagoya University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan. m-kanda@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Liver metastasis of gastric cancer (GC) is highly associated with 
poor prognosis. The development of sensitive biomarkers for detecting and 
predicting liver metastasis is required for better clinical outcome.
OBJECTIVE: In this study, we aimed to identify novel genes associated with liver 
metastasis of GC.
METHODS: Global expression profiling of 57,749 genes was performed using 
surgically resected gastric tissues from four patients with liver metastasis to 
identify candidate genes. The mRNA expression levels of the selected candidate 
gene were analyzed in the resected gastric tissues of 300 GC patients and 
correlated with clinicopathological parameters. Fourteen GC cell lines were 
subjected to mRNA expression and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) array analysis.
RESULTS: Among 25 candidate genes identified by transcriptome analysis, 
preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) was selected for subsequent 
analyses. mRNA expression analysis of clinical samples revealed the aberrant 
expression of PRAME in GC tissues, and its high expression was significantly 
related to differentiated phenotype and vessel invasion, as well as liver 
metastasis. High PRAME expression was significantly associated with hepatic 
recurrence after curative surgery, and cumulative incidences of hepatic 
recurrence were significantly greater in patients with high PRAME expression 
compared with patients with low PRAME expression. In an in vitro analysis, 
overexpression was observed in all GC cell lines compared with a normal 
epithelial cell line. PCR array analysis revealed the coordinate expression of 
MMP9, OCLN, IL1RN, and MST1R.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME is related to the malignant potential of GC and could serve 
as a novel biomarker for the detection and prediction of liver metastasis.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-019-07985-6
PMID: 31659640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J Gene Med. 2020 Mar;22(3):e3141. doi: 10.1002/jgm.3141. Epub 2020 Jan 21.

Identification of key molecular targets that correlate with breast cancer 
through bioinformatic methods.

Tang W(1), Guo X(1), Niu L(1), Song D(2), Han B(2), Zhang H(3).

Author information:
(1)The Third Operating Room, The First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
Jilin Province, China.
(2)Department of Breast Surgery, The First Hospital of Jilin University, 
Changchun, Jilin Province, China.
(3)Department of Gynaecology, The First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
Jilin Province, China.

BACKGROUND: The present study aimed to identify key molecular targets of breast 
cancer for targeted treatment and to improve the survival rate.
METHODS: Overlapped difference expression genes in three datasets were 
identified in a weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) module and 
MetaDE.ES analysis. Combined with the prognosis information [time, death, status 
and relative survival (RS)] in GSE42568, single-factor Cox regression analysis 
was used to screen the genes that were significantly related to the prognosis in 
the target gene set.
RESULTS: In total, 13 optimal gene combinations with a significantly correlated 
prognosis were obtained, including SSPN, NELL2, AGTR1, NRIP3, IKZF2, NAT1, 
CXCL12, NPY1R, PRAME, PPP1R1B, CRISP3, NMU and GSTP1. In addition, there was a 
significant correlation between the samples given by the prognostic prediction 
system and the validation dataset (GSE20685 and TCGA), with p values of 0.0299 
in GSE20685 and 1.461 × 10-5 in TCGA, and an area under the receiver operating 
characteristic of 0.942 and 0.923, respectively. RS-related differentially 
expressed genes between high- and low-risk groups were significantly related to 
biological processes such as cell period and the hormone stimulation response, 
and were also significantly involved in KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and 
Genomes) pathways such as cell period, the peroxisome proliferator-activated 
receptor signaling pathway and the cancer pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: By predicting the survival risk of breast cancer patients based on 
the 13 optimal genes, high-risk patients would be detected early. Accordingly, 
this would help in the formulation of an appropriate treatment plan for 
patients.

© 2019 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/jgm.3141
PMID: 31697007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Anticancer Res. 2019 Nov;39(11):5943-5951. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.13799.

PRAME Expression as a Potential Biomarker for Hematogenous Recurrence of 
Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Baba H(1)(2), Kanda M(3), Sawaki K(2), Shimizu D(2), Umeda S(2), Koike M(2), 
Kodera Y(2), Fujii T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Science, Graduate School of Medicine and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan.
(2)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Nagoya University Graduate School 
of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(3)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Nagoya University Graduate School 
of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan m-kanda@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND/AIM: To investigate the function of preferentially expressed antigen 
of melanoma (PRAME) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: mRNA expression levels of PRAME were analyzed in resected 
esophageal tissues of 150 ESCC patients and correlated with clinicopathological 
parameters. We also investigated the potential function of PRAME by analyzing 
coordinately expressed genes in 13 ESCC cell lines.
RESULTS: RT-qPCR analysis of clinical samples revealed aberrantly high PRAME 
expression in tumors compared with normal esophageal tissues. High PRAME 
expression was significantly associated with shorter disease-specific survival 
and hematogenous recurrence, but not with overall recurrence. The cumulative 
incidence of hematogenous recurrence was significantly greater for patients with 
high compared to those with low PRAME expression. In vitro, PCR array analysis 
revealed that PRAME was coordinately expressed with EGFR, ITGB, and TCF3.
CONCLUSION: PRAME is overexpressed in ESCC tissues and may serve as a novel 
biomarker for predicting hematogenous recurrence.

Copyright© 2019, International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.13799
PMID: 31704819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Blood Adv. 2019 Nov 12;3(21):3406-3418. doi:
10.1182/bloodadvances.2019000564.

Overexpression of WT1 and PRAME predicts poor outcomes of patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes with thrombocytopenia.

Huang QS(1)(2)(3), Wang JZ(1)(2)(3), Qin YZ(1)(2)(3), Zeng QZ(1)(2)(3), Jiang 
Q(1)(2)(3), Jiang H(1)(2)(3), Lu J(1)(2)(3), Liu HX(4), Liu Y(5), Wang JB(6), Su 
L(7), Zhang HY(8), Li ZL(9), Gao SJ(10), Huang B(10)(11), Liu YY(10), Liu 
YR(1)(2)(3), Xu LP(1)(2)(3)(12), Huang XJ(1)(2)(3)(12), Zhang XH(1)(2)(3)(12).

Author information:
(1)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, Beijing, China.
(2)National Clinical Research Center for Hematologic Disease, Beijing, China.
(3)Beijing Key Laboratory of Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation, Beijing, 
China.
(4)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Peking University People's Hospital, 
Beijing, China.
(5)The Sixth Medical Center of People's Liberation Army of China General 
Hospital, Beijing, China.
(6)Beijing Aerospace General Hospital, Beijing, China.
(7)Xuanwu Hospital Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(8)Peking University Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen, China.
(9)China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Beijing, China.
(10)Department of Immunology & National Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular 
Biology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(11)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science & Technology, Wuhan, China; and.
(12)Collaborative Innovation Center of Hematology, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.

Thrombocytopenia is associated with life-threatening bleeding and is common in 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Robust molecular prognostic biomarkers need to 
be developed to improve clinical decision making for patients with MDS with 
thrombocytopenia. Wilms tumor 1 (WT1) and preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME) are promising immunogenic antigen candidates for immunotherapy, 
and their clinical effects on patients with MDS with thrombocytopenia are still 
not well understood. We performed a multicenter observational study of adult 
patients with MDS with thrombocytopenia from 7 different tertiary medical 
centers in China. We examined bone marrow samples collected at diagnosis for WT1 
and PRAME transcript levels and then analyzed their prognostic effect for 
patients with MDS with thrombocytopenia. In total, we enrolled 1110 patients 
diagnosed with MDS with thrombocytopenia. Overexpression of WT1 and PRAME was 
associated with elevated blast percentage, worse cytogenetics, and higher 
Revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-R) risk. Further, both WT1 
and PRAME overexpression were independent poor prognostic factors for acute 
myeloid leukemia evolution, overall survival, and progression-free survival. 
Together, the 2 genes overexpression identified a population of patients with 
MDS with substantially worse survival. On the basis of WT1 and PRAME transcript 
levels, patients with MDS with IPSS-R low risk were classified into 2 
significantly divergent prognostic risk groups: a low-favorable group and a 
low-adverse group. The low-adverse group had survival similar to that of 
patients in the intermediate-risk group. Our study demonstrates that the 
evaluation of WT1/PRAME transcript analysis may improve the prognostication 
precision and better risk-stratify the patients.

© 2019 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2019000564
PMCID: PMC6855121
PMID: 31714962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest disclosures: The authors 
declare no competing financial interests.


294. Pancreatology. 2020 Mar;20(2):229-238. doi: 10.1016/j.pan.2019.12.002. Epub
2019  Dec 5.

Endoscopic ultrasound may be used to deliver gene expression signatures using 
digital mRNA detection methods to immunophenotype pancreatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma to facilitate personalized immunotherapy.

Gleeson FC(1), Levy MJ(2), Jackson RA(3), Murphy SJ(4), Halling KC(3), Kipp 
BR(3), Graham RP(5), Zhang L(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 
Electronic address: Gleeson.ferga@mayo.edu.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(3)Division of Anatomic Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA; Division of 
Laboratory Genetics, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(4)Center of Individualized Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(5)Division of Anatomic Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

Comment in
    Pancreatology. 2020 Jun;20(4):778-780.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Biomarkers are increasingly required to molecularly 
characterize pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) subgroup populations, to 
determine who may benefit from immune based targeted therapy. We evaluated the 
feasibility of gene expression signature detection and the respective landscape 
of specific tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), cancer/testis (CT) antigens, 
and immune checkpoints for possible future personalized immunotherapy 
eligibility.
METHODS: Dedicated digital mRNA oncologic immune profiling of 770 genes using a 
Nanostring nCounter® PanCancer Immune Profiling Panel was performed using 
archived endoscopic ultrasound fine needle biopsy (EUS FNB) PDAC specimens as a 
case series in a tertiary care setting.
RESULTS: The spectrum of mRNA gene expression within the tumor specimens 
revealed that 44.8%, 10.0% and 50.7% of evaluated genes had a ≥ 2-fold increase, 
a ≤ 2-fold reduction or between <2 and >2 change of mRNA expression, when 
compared to normal controls. The corresponding landscape of TILs, CT antigens, 
and immune checkpoints highlighted several possibilities that could potentially 
be amenable to targeted personalized immunotherapy. This includes members of the 
Tumor Associated Macrophage family (CD68, CXCL5, and MARCO), members of the CT 
antigen family (PRAME, TTK and PBK) and the "second generation" checkpoints TIM3 
and BTLA.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study represents the ability to successfully perform digital 
mRNA expression profile analyses to immunophenotype PDAC EUS FNB specimens by 
evaluating the expression of >730 genes within the tumor immune 
microenvironment. This may facilitate the search for novel therapeutic targets, 
offering the opportunity to go beyond immune monotherapy, but perhaps to use 
combined immunomodulatory agents.

Copyright © 2019 IAP and EPC. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pan.2019.12.002
PMID: 31831392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
have declared that no competing interests exist.


295. Breast. 2020 Feb;49:202-209. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2019.12.002. Epub 2019
Dec  12.

Expression of tumor-associated antigens in breast cancer subtypes.

Curigliano G(1), Bagnardi V(2), Ghioni M(3), Louahed J(4), Brichard V(5), 
Lehmann FF(6), Marra A(7), Trapani D(7), Criscitiello C(8), Viale G(9).

Author information:
(1)Division of Early Drug Development for Innovative Therapies, IEO, European 
Institute of Oncology IRCCS, Milan, Italy; Department of Oncology and 
Hemato-Oncology, University of Milano, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: 
giuseppe.curigliano@ieo.it.
(2)Department of Statistics and Quantitative Methods, University of 
Milan-Bicocca, Milan, Italy.
(3)Division of Pathology, IEO, European Institute of Oncology IRCCS, Milan, 
Italy.
(4)GSK, USA.
(5)GSK, USA; Vianova-Biosciences, Belgium.
(6)GSK, USA; Celyad, Mont-Saint-Guibert, Belgium.
(7)Division of Early Drug Development for Innovative Therapies, IEO, European 
Institute of Oncology IRCCS, Milan, Italy; Department of Oncology and 
Hemato-Oncology, University of Milano, Milan, Italy.
(8)Division of Early Drug Development for Innovative Therapies, IEO, European 
Institute of Oncology IRCCS, Milan, Italy.
(9)Department of Oncology and Hemato-Oncology, University of Milano, Milan, 
Italy; Division of Pathology, IEO, European Institute of Oncology IRCCS, Milan, 
Italy.

OBJECTIVES: Tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) are frequently overexpressed in 
several cancer types. The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of 
TAAs in breast cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 250 selected invasive breast cancers including 
50 estrogen receptor (ER)-positive (Luminal B like), 50 triple-negative (TN), 
50 ER-positive lobular type, 50 ER- and progesterone receptor (PgR)-positive 
(Luminal A like) and 50 cerbB2-positive breast cancers, were assessed for New 
York esophageal squamous cell carcinoma-1 (NY-ESO-1), Wilms tumor antigen (WT-1) 
and PReferentially expressed Antigen of MElanoma (PRAME) antigen expression by 
immunohistochemistry (IHC).
RESULTS: A significantly higher expression of cancer testis (CT)-antigens 
NY-ESO-1 and WT-1 antigen was detected in TN breast cancers compared with 
ER-positive tumors. NY-ESO-1 overexpression (score 2 + and 3+) assessed by 
monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies was detected in 9 (18%) TN cancers as 
compared to 2 (4%) ER-positive tumors (p = 0.002). WT1 over-expression (score 
2 + and 3+) was confirmed in 27 (54%) TN tumor samples as compared to 6 (12%) 
ER-positive (p < 0.0001). PRAME over-expression (score 2 + and 3+) was detected 
in 8 (16%) HER2 positive tumor samples as compared to no TN and ER-positive 
cancers (p = 0.0021).
CONCLUSIONS: NY-ESO-1 and WT1 antigens are overexpressed in TN breast cancers. 
Because of the limited therapeutic options for this patient subgroup, CT 
antigen-based vaccines might prove to be useful for patients with this phenotype 
of breast cancer.

Copyright © 2019 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2019.12.002
PMCID: PMC7375652
PMID: 31869767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: GC received honoraria for speaker, consultancy 
or advisory role from Roche, Pfizer, Novartis, Seattle Genetics, Lilly, 
Ellipsis. JL, VB, FFL are/were employees of the GSK groups of companies in the 
course of the study; they hold shares in the GSK group of companies. The other 
authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.


296. Cancer Genet. 2020 Feb;241:34-41. doi: 10.1016/j.cancergen.2019.12.001. Epub
 2019 Dec 10.

Genomic and transcriptomic features of dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans: Unusual 
chromosomal origin of the COL1A1-PDGFB fusion gene and synergistic effects of 
amplified regions in tumor development.

Köster J(1), Arbajian E(2), Viklund B(3), Isaksson A(3), Hofvander J(2), Haglund 
F(4), Bauer H(5), Magnusson L(2), Mandahl N(2), Mertens F(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Genetics, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden; Department of Clinical Genetics and Pathology, 
Division of Laboratory Medicine, Lund, Sweden. Electronic address: 
jan.koster@med.lu.se.
(2)Division of Clinical Genetics, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden.
(3)Science for Life Laboratory, Department of Medical Sciences, Uppsala 
University, Sweden.
(4)Department of Pathology and Cytology, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)Department of Orthopedics, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(6)Division of Clinical Genetics, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden; Department of Clinical Genetics and Pathology, 
Division of Laboratory Medicine, Lund, Sweden.

The dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans family of tumors (DPFT) comprises cutaneous 
soft tissue neoplasms associated with aberrant PDGFBR signaling, typically 
through a COL1A1-PDGFB fusion. The aim of the present study was to obtain a 
better understanding of the chromosomal origin of this fusion and to assess the 
spectrum of secondary mutations at the chromosome and nucleotide levels. We thus 
investigated 42 tumor samples from 35 patients using chromosome banding, 
fluorescence in situ hybridization, single nucleotide polymorphism arrays, 
and/or massively parallel sequencing (gene panel, whole exome and transcriptome 
sequencing) methods. We confirmed the age-associated differences in the origin 
of the COL1A1-PDGFB fusion and could show that it in most cases must arise after 
DNA synthesis, i.e., in the S or G2 phase of the cell cycle. Whereas there was a 
non-random pattern of secondary chromosomal rearrangements, single nucleotide 
variants seem to have little impact on tumor progression. No clear genomic 
differences between low-grade and high-grade DPFT were found, but the number of 
chromosomes and chromosomal imbalances as well as the frequency of 9p deletions 
all tended to be greater among the latter. Gene expression profiling of tumors 
with COL1A1-PDGFB fusions associated with unbalanced translocations or ring 
chromosomes identified several transcriptionally up-regulated genes in the 
amplified regions of chromosomes 17 and 22, including TBX2, PRKCA, MSI2, SOX9, 
SOX10, and PRAME.

Copyright © 2019. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cancergen.2019.12.001
PMID: 31870844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflicts of interest.


297. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2020;1217:173-186. doi: 10.1007/978-981-15-1025-0_11.

The Roles of Cullin-2 E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Complex in Cancer.

Liu X(1), Zurlo G(1)(2), Zhang Q(3)(4)(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina School 
of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(3)Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina School 
of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Qing.Zhang@UTSouthwestern.edu.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, 
USA. Qing.Zhang@UTSouthwestern.edu.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of North 
Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Qing.Zhang@UTSouthwestern.edu.
(6)Department of Pathology, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA. 
Qing.Zhang@UTSouthwestern.edu.

Posttranslational protein modifications play an important role in regulating 
protein stability and cellular function. There are at least eight Cullin family 
members. Among them, Cullin-2 forms a functional E3 ligase complex with elongin 
B, elongin C, RING-box protein 1 (RBX1, also called ROC1), as well as the 
substrate recognition subunit (SRS) to promote the substrate ubiquitination and 
degradation. In this book chapter, we will review Cullin-2 E3 ligase complexes 
that include various SRS proteins, including von Hippel Lindau (pVHL), 
leucine-rich repeat protein-1 (LRR-1), preferentially expressed antigen of 
melanoma (PRAME), sex-determining protein FEM-1 and early embryogenesis protein 
ZYG-11. We will focus on the VHL signaling pathway in clear cell renal cell 
carcinoma (ccRCC), which may reveal various therapeutic avenues in treating this 
lethal cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/978-981-15-1025-0_11
PMID: 31898228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Immunol Lett. 2020 Mar;219:46-53. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2020.01.001. Epub
2020  Jan 10.

Detection of tumor antigens and tumor-antigen specific T cells in NSCLC 
patients: Correlation of the quality of T cell responses with NSCLC subtype.

Palata O(1), Podzimkova Hradilova N(1), Mysiková D(2), Kutna B(2), Mrazkova 
H(2), Lischke R(2), Spisek R(1), Adkins I(3).

Author information:
(1)Sotio, Prague, Czech Republic; Department of Immunology, 2nd Faculty of 
Medicine and University Hospital Motol, Charles University, Czech Republic.
(2)Thoracic and Lung Transplantation Division, 3rd Department of Surgery, First 
Faculty of Medicine, Charles University in Prague and University Hospital Motol, 
Czech Republic.
(3)Sotio, Prague, Czech Republic; Department of Immunology, 2nd Faculty of 
Medicine and University Hospital Motol, Charles University, Czech Republic. 
Electronic address: adkins@sotio.com.

Allogeneic cancer cell lines serve as universal source of tumor-associated 
antigens in cancer vaccines. Immunogenic high hydrostatic pressure-killed cancer 
cells derived from cell lines can be used for the generation of dendritic cell 
(DC)-based active cellular immunotherapy of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 
We investigated the expression of 12 known NSCLC tumor-associated antigens (TAA) 
(CEA, MAGE-A1, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, PRAME, hTERT, HER2, MUC1, Survivin, STEAP1, 
SOX2 and NY-ESO-1) in 6 NSCLC cell lines as candidates for the generation of 
DC-based lung cancer vaccine. We showed that the selected antigenic profile of 
these cell lines overlaps to various degrees with that of primary NSCLC tumors 
(n = 52), indicating that 4 out of 6 NSCLC cell lines would be suitable for 
DC-based vaccine generation. We further investigated the presence of 
TAA-specific T cells in blood of NSCLC patients (n = 32) using commercially 
available peptide mixes in an in vitro stimulation assay. IFN-γ+CD8+ and 
IFN-γ+CD4+ T cell responses to all antigens were detected in NSCLC patients. 
Interestingly, despite higher TAA expression in squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) 
the responsiveness of patients' T cells to stimulation was significantly lower 
in SCC patients than in adenocarcinoma (AC) patients. This suggests qualitative 
differences in T cell functionality between NSCLC subtypes. Based on this study, 
and in order to maximize the amount of treatable patients, we selected a mix of 
H520 and H522 NSCLC cell lines for DC-based vaccine preparation. We also 
established a minimal panel of antigenic peptide mixes (CEA, hTERT, PRAME, HER2) 
for immunomonitoring of T cell responses during the DC-based lung cancer 
immunotherapy in Phase I lung cancer clinical trial (NCT02470468).

Copyright © 2020 European Federation of Immunological Societies. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2020.01.001
PMID: 31931024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2020;20(5):571-579. doi: 
10.2174/1871520620666200130091955.

Knockdown of Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Affects mRNA Expression of Genes 
Involved in the Induction of Resistance to Apoptosis in MOLT-4 Cells.

Naimi A(1)(2), Safaei S(3), Entezari A(4), Solali S(5), Hassanzadeh A(5).

Author information:
(1)Cellular and Molecular Research Center, Sabzevar University of Medical 
Science, Sabzevar, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, Faculty of Paramedicine, Sabzevar 
University of Medical Sciences, Sabzevar, Iran.
(3)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.
(5)Department of Immunology, Division of Hematology, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz 
University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 (EZH2) is a subunit of the polycomb 
repressive complex 2 that silences the gene transcription via H3K27me3. Previous 
studies have shown that EZH2 has an important role in the induction of the 
resistance against the Tumor necrosis factor-Related Apoptosis-Inducing Ligand 
(TRAIL)-Induced Apoptosis (TIA) in some leukemia cells.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the effect of silencing EZH2 
gene expression using RNA interference on the expression of death receptors 4 
and 5 (DR4/5), Preferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME), and TRAIL 
human lymphoid leukemia MOLT-4 cells.
METHODS: Quantitative RT-PCR was used to detect the EZH2 expression and other 
candidate genes following the siRNA knockdown in MOLT-4 cells. The toxicity of 
the EZH2 siRNA was evaluated using Annexin V/PI assay following the transfection 
of the cells by 80 pM EZH2 siRNA at 48 hours.
RESULTS: Based on the flow-cytometry results, the EZH2 siRNA had no toxic 
effects on MOLT-4 cells. Also, the EZH2 inhibition increased the expression of 
DR4/5 but reduced the PRAME gene expression at the mRNA levels. Moreover, the 
EZH2 silencing could not change the TRAIL mRNA in the transfected cells.
CONCLUSION: Our results revealed that the down-regulation of EZH2 in MOLT-4 
cells was able to affect the expression of important genes involved in the 
induction of resistance against TIA. Hence, we suggest that the silencing of 
EZH2 using RNA interference can be an effective and safe approach to help defeat 
the MOLT-4 cell resistance against TIA.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1871520620666200130091955
PMID: 32000648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Mol Reprod Dev. 2020 Jun;87(6):666-679. doi: 10.1002/mrd.23324. Epub 2020
Feb 3.

Deletion of the mouse X-linked Prame gene causes germ cell reduction in 
spermatogenesis.

Lu C(1), Yang M(1), Rossi RM(2), Wang A(1), Feitosa WB(1), Diaz FJ(1), Liu 
WS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Center for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, Pennsylvania.
(2)Transgenic Mouse Facility, The Huck Institutes of the Life Sciences, The 
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, Pennsylvania.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is cancer/testis antigen 
and a transcriptional repressor, inhibiting the signaling of retinoic acid 
through the retinoic acid receptor (RAR) for promoting cell proliferation and 
preventing cell apoptosis in cancer cells. The role of PRAME in testis and 
germline is unknown. We report here the generation and characterization of an 
X-linked Prame conditional knockout (cKO) mouse. Although fertile, the testis 
size (p < .01) and sperm count (p < .05) of the Prame cKO mice were 
significantly reduced by 12% at 4 months of age compared with the Prame floxed 
mice. Histological, immunofluorescence with germ cell-specific markers and 
terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling analyses of testis 
cross-sections at postnatal day 7 (P7), P14, P21, P35, P120, and P365 indicated 
a significant increase in apoptotic germ cells at P7 and P14 and an increase in 
abnormal seminiferous tubules at P21 and P35. Germ cells were gradually lost 
resulting in two different phenotypes in the Prame cKO testes: Sertoli-cell-only 
for some of the affected tubules in young mice (at P35) and germ cell arrest at 
spermatogonia stage for other affected tubules in mature mice. Both phenotypes 
were a consequence of disruption in RAR signaling pathway by the depletion of 
Prame at a different time point during the first and subsequent rounds of 
spermatogenesis. The results suggest that Prame plays a minor, but important 
role in spermatogenesis and different paralogs in the Prame gene family may be 
functionally and partially redundant.

© 2020 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/mrd.23324
PMID: 32017313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Cell Prolif. 2020 Mar;53(3):e12770. doi: 10.1111/cpr.12770. Epub 2020 Feb 5.

The role of the cancer testis antigen PRAME in tumorigenesis and immunotherapy 
in human cancer.

Xu Y(1), Zou R(1), Wang J(1), Wang ZW(1)(2), Zhu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Departmant of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), which belongs to the 
cancer/testis antigen (CTA) gene family, plays a pivotal role in multiple 
cellular processes and immunotherapy response in human cancers. PRAME is highly 
expressed in different types of cancers and is involved in cell proliferation, 
apoptosis, differentiation and metastasis as well as the outcomes of patients 
with cancer. In this review article, we discuss the potential roles and 
physiological functions of PRAME in various types of cancers. Moreover, this 
review highlights immunotherapeutic strategies that target PRAME in human 
malignancies. Therefore, the modulation of PRAME might be useful for the 
treatment of patients with cancer.

© 2020 The Authors. Cell Proliferation Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cpr.12770
PMCID: PMC7106952
PMID: 32022332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


302. Clin Sarcoma Res. 2020 Feb 4;10:3. doi: 10.1186/s13569-020-0125-2.
eCollection  2020.

Cancer/testis antigens expression during cultivation of melanoma and soft tissue 
sarcoma cells.

Danilova A(1)(2), Misyurin V(3), Novik A(1), Girdyuk D(1), Avdonkina N(1), 
Nekhaeva T(1), Emelyanova N(1), Pipia N(1), Misyurin A(3), Baldueva I(1).

Author information:
(1)1N.N. Petrov' National Medical Cancer Research Center, Leningradskaya str., 
68, Pesochniy, Saint-Petersburg, 197758 Russian Federation.
(2)3Department of Oncoimmunology, N.N. Petrov' National Medical Cancer Research 
Center, Leningradskaya str., 68, Pesochniy, Saint-Petersburg, 197758 Russian 
Federation.
(3)2N.N. Blokhin' National Medical Cancer Research Center, Kashirskoye sh. 24, 
Moscow, 115478 Russian Federation.

BACKGROUND: Autologous dendritic cells (DC) loaded with tumor-associated 
antigens (TAAs) are a promising approach for anticancer immunotherapy. 
Polyantigen lysates appear to be an excellent source of TAAs for loading onto 
the patient's dendritic cells. Cancer/testis antigens (CTA) are expressed by a 
wide range of tumors, but are minimally expressed on normal tissues, and could 
serve as a universal target for immunotherapy. However, CTA expression levels 
can vary significantly in patients with the same tumor type. We proposed that 
patients who do not respond to DC-based therapy may have distinct features of 
the CTA expression profile on tumor cells.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We compared the gene expression of the principal families 
CTA in 22 melanoma and 27 soft tissue and bone sarcomas cell lines (STBS), 
received from patients and used for DC vaccine preparation.
RESULTS: The majority (47 of 49, 95.9%) cell lines showed CTA gene activity. The 
incidence of gene expression of GAGE, NYESO1, MAGEA1, PRAME's was significantly 
different (adj. p < 0.05) between melanoma and sarcoma cell lines. The 
expression of the SCP1 gene was detected neither in melanoma cells nor in the 
STBS cells. Clustering by the gene expression profile revealed four different 
expression patterns. We found three main patterns types: hyperexpression of 
multiple CTA, hyperexpression of one CTA with almost no expression of others, 
and no expression of CTA. All clusters types exist in melanoma and sarcoma cell 
lines. We observed dependence of killing efficacy from the PRAME (rho = 0.940, 
adj. p < 0.01) expression during real-time monitoring with the xCELLigence 
system of the interaction between melanoma or sarcoma cells with the 
T-lymphocytes activated by the lysate of selected allogenous melanoma cell lines 
with high expression of CTA.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that one can use lysates from allogeneic 
melanoma cell lines as a source of CTA for DC load during the production of 
anticancer vaccines for the STBS treatment. Patterns of CTA expression should be 
evaluated as biomarkers of response in prospective clinical trials.

© The Author(s) 2020.

DOI: 10.1186/s13569-020-0125-2
PMCID: PMC6998350
PMID: 32042403

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


303. Neoplasma. 2020 May;67(3):473-483. doi: 10.4149/neo_2020_190320N249. Epub
2020  Feb 17.

Integrated analysis of different mRNA and miRNA profiles in human hypopharyngeal 
squamous cell carcinoma sensitive and resistant to chemotherapy.

Kong F(1)(2), He S(1), Shen X(1), Li L(1), Fang J(1), Lian M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, Beijing Tongren 
Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, The Hospital of Shunyi District Beijing, 
Beijing, China.

The purpose of this study was to identify potential miRNAs and mRNAs involved in 
chemotherapy insensitivity in hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (HSCC) and 
to explore the underlying mechanisms involved to provide diagnostic markers and 
therapeutic targets for HSCC. We used microarrays to identify differences in 
both the mRNA and miRNA expression profiles between a group (twelve patients) 
sensitive to chemotherapy and a resistant group (nine patients). We then 
employed bioinformatics tools to examine the functions and pathways involved. 
The genes and miRNAs most related to chemotherapy sensitivity in HSCC were 
screened. Finally, a miRNA-mRNA-phenotype network was constructed with an 
integrated analysis based on the identified miRNAs and mRNAs. Nine 
differentially expressed miRNAs and one hundred differentially expressed mRNAs 
were identified, and the functions of these genes and miRNAs were predicted. 
Bioinformatics analysis revealed a regulatory network consisting of eight genes 
and two miRNAs that influenced HSCC chemosensitivity. According to our analysis, 
CCL4L1 may be a potential molecular marker for HSCC chemotherapy, and excess 
CCL4L1 leads to the upregulation of PRAME and the downregulation of miR-375, 
thus decreasing HSPB8 expression and promoting chemotherapy sensitivity. Our 
work provides reliable data for further studies investigating the mechanism of 
HSCC chemotherapy sensitivity.

DOI: 10.4149/neo_2020_190320N249
PMID: 32064881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Comput Biol Chem. 2020 Apr;85:107231. doi:
10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2020.107231.  Epub 2020 Feb 8.

Immunopeptidome screening to design An immunogenic construct against PRAME 
positive breast cancer; An in silico study.

Afzali F(1), Minuchehr Z(2), Jahangiri S(3), Ranjbar MM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, Canada.
(2)Systems Biotechnology Department, National Institute of Genetic Engineering 
and Biotechnology (NIGEB), Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine, Morsani College of Medicine, University of 
South Florida, FL, United States of America.
(4)Razi Vaccine and Serum Research Institute, Agricultural Research, Education 
and Extension Organization (AREEO), Karaj, Iran. Electronic address: 
mm.ranjbar.phd@gmail.coms.

BACKGROUND: Metastasis is the main cause of breast cancer (BC) lethality, 
especially in early stages, led to improvements in therapeutic procedures. 
Lately, by improvements in our perception of biological processes and immune 
system new classes of vaccines are emerged that grant us the opportunity of 
designing resolute constructs against desired antigens. In the current study, we 
used a variety of immunoinformatics tools to design a novel cancer vaccine 
against Preferentially Expressed Antigen of Melanoma (PRAME), which counts as a 
cancer testis antigen for various human cancers including BC. The PRAME 
up-regulation leads to strengthen BC stem cells maintenance, drug resistance, 
cell survival, adaptation, and apoptosis evading in cancerous cells.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The PRAME co-expressed genes were mined and validated 
through BC RNA-sequencing of TCGA data. The immunodominant T-cell predicted 
epitopes were fused and engineered to form the vaccine. The safety, 
allergenicity, and immunogenic capabilities of the vaccine were confirmed by 
promising immunoinformatics tools. The vaccine's structure was verified to be 
hydrophilic in most areas through Kyte and Doolittle hydrophobicity plotting. 
The interactions between the designed vaccine and immune receptors of TLR4 and 
IL1R were confirmed by protein-protein docking after modeling its tertiary 
structure. Finally, codon optimization and in silico cloning were performed to 
guarantee better in-vivo results.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, concerning in silico assessments' results in this 
study, the designed vaccine can potentially boost immune responses against 
PRAME, therefore may decrease BC development and metastasis. According to the 
mined PRAME co-expressed genes and their functional annotation, cell cycle 
regulation is the prime mechanism opted by this construct and its adjacent 
regulatory genes along boosting immune reactions.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiolchem.2020.107231
PMID: 32065960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no conflict of interest.


305. J Cutan Pathol. 2020 Jul;47(7):649-653. doi: 10.1111/cup.13672. Epub 2020
Mar  20.

Melanocytic and pseudomelanocytic nests coexist in interface dermatitis from 
head-neck sun-exposed skin: A report of three cases.

Ferrara G(1), Bradamante M(2), Broglia I(1), Petrillo G(3), Stefanato CM(4).

Author information:
(1)Anatomic Pathology Unit, Macerata General Hospital, Macerata, Italy.
(2)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, University Hospital Centre Zabreb, 
Zagreb, Croatia.
(3)Private Dermatology, Naples, Italy.
(4)Department of Dermatopathology, St John's Institute of Dermatology, St 
Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    Dermatol Surg. 2022 Dec 1;48(12):1354-1355.

Discrete junctional cellular aggregates ("nests"), partially staining with 
melanocytic markers, are described in lichenoid tissue reaction, mainly from 
chronically sun-exposed skin. The concomitant epidermal flattening and papillary 
dermal fibrosis with melanophages, may raise the differential diagnosis to that 
of a regressing melanoma. We describe three cases of interface dermatitis of the 
head/neck area with clinicopathological features of melanotic discoid lupus 
erythematosus. These cases showed junctional aggregates, a few composed of 
inflammatory cells and colloid bodies ("pseudomelanocytic nests"), while others 
composed of S100- but MART-1+, MITF+, and SOX-10+ cells ("true melanocytic 
nests"); negativity of the melanocytic component for PRAME was a clue to 
benignity. True junctional melanocytic nesting may be induced by lichenoid 
dermatoses on chronically sun-damaged skin. The presence of colloid bodies and 
of the double negativity for S100 (within nests) and PRAME (both within nests 
and single melanocytes), together with clinicopathological correlation, avoids 
misdiagnosis.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.13672
PMID: 32109330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Clin Transl Immunology. 2020 Mar 3;9(3):e1117. doi: 10.1002/cti2.1117. 
eCollection 2020.

Toll-like receptor 7/8-matured RNA-transduced dendritic cells as post-remission 
therapy in acute myeloid leukaemia: results of a phase I trial.

Lichtenegger FS(1)(2)(3), Schnorfeil FM(1)(2)(4)(5), Rothe M(1)(2), Deiser 
K(1)(2), Altmann T(1)(2), Bücklein VL(1)(2), Köhnke T(1)(2), Augsberger C(1)(2), 
Konstandin NP(1), Spiekermann K(1), Moosmann A(6), Boehm S(7), Boxberg M(8), 
Heemskerk MH(9), Goerlich D(10), Wittmann G(11), Wagner B(11), Hiddemann 
W(1)(4), Schendel DJ(12), Kvalheim G(13), Bigalke I(13)(14), Subklewe 
M(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine III University Hospital, LMU Munich Munich Germany.
(2)Laboratory for Translational Cancer Immunology Gene Center LMU Munich Munich 
Germany.
(3)Present address: Roche Innovation Center Munich Penzberg Germany.
(4)German Cancer Consortium (DKTK) and German Cancer Research Center (DKFZ) 
Heidelberg Germany.
(5)Present address: Medigene AG Planegg Germany.
(6)DZIF Research Group "Host Control of Viral Latency and Reactivation" 
(HOCOVLAR) Helmholtz Zentrum München Munich Germany.
(7)Max von Pettenkofer Institute LMU Munich Munich Germany.
(8)Institute of Pathology Technical University of Munich Munich Germany.
(9)Department of Hematology Leiden University Medical Center Leiden The 
Netherlands.
(10)Institute of Biostatistics and Clinical Research University of Muenster 
Muenster Germany.
(11)Department of Transfusion Medicine, Cellular Therapeutics and Hemostaseology 
University Hospital LMU Munich Munich Germany.
(12)Medigene AG Planegg Germany.
(13)Department of Cellular Therapy The Norwegian Radium Hospital Oslo University 
Hospital Oslo Norway.
(14)Present address: BioNTech IMFS Idar-Oberstein Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Innovative post-remission therapies are needed to eliminate residual 
AML cells. DC vaccination is a promising strategy to induce anti-leukaemic 
immune responses.
METHODS: We conducted a first-in-human phase I study using TLR7/8-matured DCs 
transfected with RNA encoding the two AML-associated antigens WT1 and PRAME as 
well as CMVpp65. AML patients in CR at high risk of relapse were vaccinated 10× 
over 26 weeks.
RESULTS: Despite heavy pretreatment, DCs of sufficient number and quality were 
generated from a single leukapheresis in 11/12 cases, and 10 patients were 
vaccinated. Administration was safe and resulted in local inflammatory responses 
with dense T-cell infiltration. In peripheral blood, increased antigen-specific 
CD8+ T cells were seen for WT1 (2/10), PRAME (4/10) and CMVpp65 (9/10). For 
CMVpp65, increased CD4+ T cells were detected in 4/7 patients, and an antibody 
response was induced in 3/7 initially seronegative patients. Median OS was not 
reached after 1057 days; median RFS was 1084 days. A positive correlation was 
observed between clinical benefit and younger age as well as mounting of 
antigen-specific immune responses.
CONCLUSIONS: Administration of TLR7/8-matured DCs to AML patients in CR at high 
risk of relapse was feasible and safe and resulted in induction of 
antigen-specific immune responses. Clinical benefit appeared to occur more 
likely in patients <65 and in patients mounting an immune response. Our 
observations need to be validated in a larger patient cohort. We hypothesise 
that TLR7/8 DC vaccination strategies should be combined with hypomethylating 
agents or checkpoint inhibition to augment immune responses.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study was registered at https://clinicaltrials.gov on 17 
October 2012 (NCT01734304) and at https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 
(EudraCT-Number 2010-022446-24) on 10 October 2013.

© 2020 The Authors. Clinical & Translational Immunology published by John Wiley 
& Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Australian and New Zealand Society for 
Immunology Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cti2.1117
PMCID: PMC7053229
PMID: 32153780

Conflict of interest statement: DJS is employed by Medigene Immunotherapies 
GmbH, and holds patents and receives royalties for DC vaccines. All other 
authors declare that they have no conflict of interest.


307. Cancer Med. 2020 May;9(10):3522-3536. doi: 10.1002/cam4.2956. Epub 2020 Mar
14.

Identification of aberrantly methylated differentially expressed genes and 
associated pathways in endometrial cancer using integrated bioinformatic 
analysis.

Liu J(1), Wan Y(1), Li S(1), Qiu H(2), Jiang Y(1), Ma X(1), Zhou S(1), Cheng 
W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, China.
(2)Center of Rehabilitation Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing, China.

Erratum in
    Cancer Med. 2020 Jul;9(13):4877.

Endometrial cancer (EC) is a fatal female reproductive tumor. Bioinformatic 
tools are increasingly developed to screen out molecular targets related to EC. 
In this study, GSE17025 and GSE40032 were obtained from Gene Expression Omnibus 
(GEO). "limma" package and Venn diagram tool were used to identify hub genes. 
FunRich was used for functional analysis. Retrieval of Interacting Genes 
Database (STRING) was used to analyze protein-protein interaction (PPI) complex. 
Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), GEPIA, immunohistochemistry staining, and ROC curve 
analysis were carried out for validation. Univariate and multivariate regression 
analyses were performed to predict the risk score. Compound muscle action 
potential (CMap) was used to find potential drugs. GSEA was also done. We 
retrieved seven oncogenes which were upregulated and hypomethylated and 12 tumor 
suppressor genes (TSGs) which were downregulated and hypermethylated. The 
upregulated and hypomethylated genes were strikingly enriched in term "immune 
response" while the downregulated and hypermethylated genes were mainly focused 
on term "aromatic compound catabolic process." TCGA and GEPIA were used to 
screen out EDNRB, CDO1, NDN, PLCD1, ROR2, ESPL1, PRAME, and PTTG1. Among them, 
ESPL1 and ROR2 were identified by Cox regression analysis and were used to 
construct prognostic risk model. The result showed that ESPL1 was a negative 
independent prognostic factor. Cmap identified aminoglutethimide, luteolin, 
sulfadimethoxine, and maprotiline had correlation with EC. GSEA results showed 
that "hedgehog signaling pathway" was enriched. This research inferred potential 
aberrantly methylated DEGs and dysregulated pathways may participate in EC 
development and firstly reported eight hub genes, including EDNRB, CDO1, NDN, 
PLCD1, ROR2, ESPL1, PRAME, and PTTG1 that could be used to predict EC prognosis. 
Aminoglutethimide and luteolin may be used to fight against EC.

© 2020 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.2956
PMCID: PMC7221444
PMID: 32170852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflict of interest in 
this work.


308. Am J Ophthalmol Case Rep. 2020 Mar 7;18:100655. doi:
10.1016/j.ajoc.2020.100655.  eCollection 2020 Jun.

An amelanotic choroidal melanoma arising in a young man with tattoo-associated 
sarcoidosis.

Berkowitz ST(1), Brock AL(2), Reichstein DA(2).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, USA.
(2)Tennessee Retina, PC, Nashville, TN, USA.

PURPOSE: To describe a patient with an amelanotic choroidal melanoma, originally 
misdiagnosed as a choroidal granuloma, following his systemic diagnosis of 
tattoo-associated sarcoidosis.
OBSERVATIONS: The amelanotic choroidal tumor, suspected to be a granuloma, 
failed initial steroid treatment. Full-thickness chorioretinal biopsy 
demonstrated histologic presence of uveal melanoma and tumor genetics via GEP 
analysis demonstrated a PRAME negative, Class 1A lesion. The amelanotic 
choroidal melanoma was treated successfully with I-125 plaque brachytherapy.
CONCLUSION AND IMPORTANCE: Despite a systemic diagnosis which predisposes a 
patient to uveal granuloma, amelanotic choroidal melanomas can still occur and 
should be considered. The association of uveal melanoma and sarcoidosis remains 
rare and of unclear significance.

© 2020 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajoc.2020.100655
PMCID: PMC7082514
PMID: 32211561

Conflict of interest statement: The following authors have no financial 
disclosures: STB, ALB, DAR.


309. Ocul Oncol Pathol. 2020 Mar;6(2):93-98. doi: 10.1159/000502309. Epub 2019
Sep  18.

Primary Episcleral Melanoma Consistent with Uveal Melanoma Mutations Treated by 
Excision and Gamma Knife Stereotactic Radiosurgery.

Langevin ST(1), Chang E(2), Wang TJC(3), Deutsch I(3), Otten M(4), Marr BP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Edward S. Harkness Eye Institute, Columbia 
University Irving Medical Center, New York, New York, USA.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Nassau University Medical Center, East Meadow, 
New York, USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, 
New York, New York, USA.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, Columbia University Irving Medical Center, New 
York, New York, USA.

Ocular melanocytosis has traditionally been associated with increased risk of 
developing uveal melanoma; however, rarely primary episcleral melanoma has been 
reported in the literature. Herein, we present the third case of primary 
episcleral melanoma treated by complete excision and cryotherapy. In contrast to 
previous cases, we obtained molecular genetic testing which revealed a GNA-11 
mutation, and gene expression profiling resulted in a Class 2 PRAME positive 
tumor diagnosis. These two tests which have never been performed on previous 
cases, support lineage similar to uveal melanoma. In addition, we are the first 
case to report treatment of the surgical bed and surrounding orbital tissue with 
Gamma Knife stereotactic radiotherapy to both treat residual tissue and decrease 
risk of recurrence.

Copyright © 2019 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000502309
PMCID: PMC7109391
PMID: 32258016

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Wang reports personal fees and non-financial 
support from AbbVie, non-financial support from Merck, personal fees from 
AstraZeneca, personal fees from Doximity, personal fees and non-financial 
support from Novocure, personal fees and non-financial support from Elekta, and 
personal fees from Wolters Kluwer, outside the submitted work. Dr. Marr is a 
consultant for Aura Biosciences, Castle Biosciences, and Immunocore.


310. Am J Surg Pathol. 2020 Jul;44(7):893-900. doi: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001492.

Comparison of Immunohistochemistry for PRAME With Cytogenetic Test Results in 
the Evaluation of Challenging Melanocytic Tumors.

Lezcano C(1), Jungbluth AA, Busam KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer, New York, NY.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a melanoma-associated 
antigen. Although diffuse immunoreactivity for PRAME is found in most primary 
cutaneous melanomas, melanocytic nevi express PRAME usually only in a 
subpopulation of tumor cells or not at all. Hence, testing for PRAME expression 
has the potential to provide useful information for the assessment for 
diagnostically ambiguous melanocytic neoplasms. Many of the latter tumors are 
currently studied by cytogenetic methods for ancillary evidence in support of or 
against a diagnosis of melanoma. In this study we analyzed 110 diagnostically 
problematic melanocytic tumors comparing results for PRAME immunohistochemistry 
(IHC) with those from fluorescence in situ hybridization and/or single 
nucleotide polymorphism-array, and each with the final diagnostic 
interpretation. In 90% of cases there was concordance between PRAME IHC and 
cytogenetic tests results, and in 92.7% concordance between PRAME IHC and the 
final diagnosis. The high concordance between PRAME IHC and cytogenetic test 
results as well as the final diagnosis supports the use of PRAME IHC as an 
ancillary test in the evaluation of ambiguous primary cutaneous melanocytic 
neoplasms, especially given its practical advantage of lower cost and faster 
turnaround over cytogenetic or gene expression studies. However, our results 
indicate that PRAME IHC and cytogenetic tests for melanocytic tumors are not 
entirely interchangeable and on occasion each type of test may yield 
false-negative or false-positive results.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001492
PMCID: PMC7289661
PMID: 32317605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2020 Oct;83(4):996-1004. doi:
10.1016/j.jaad.2020.03.122.  Epub 2020 Apr 29.

Technological advances for the detection of melanoma: Advances in molecular 
techniques.

Fried L(1), Tan A(1), Bajaj S(1), Liebman TN(1), Polsky D(1), Stein JA(2).

Author information:
(1)The Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University School 
of Medicine, New York, New York.
(2)The Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, New York University School 
of Medicine, New York, New York. Electronic address: Jennifer.Stein@nyumc.org.

The growth of molecular technologies analyzing skin cells and inherited genetic 
variations has the potential to address current gaps in both diagnostic accuracy 
and prognostication in patients with melanoma or in individuals who are at risk 
for developing melanoma. In the second article in this continuing medical 
education series, novel molecular technologies are reviewed. These have been 
developed as adjunct tools for melanoma management and include the Pigmented 
Lesion Assay, myPath Melanoma, and DecisionDx-Melanoma tests, and genetic 
testing in patients with a strong familial melanoma history. These tests are 
commercially available and marketed as ancillary tools for clinical 
decision-making, diagnosis, and prognosis. We review fundamental principles 
behind each test, discuss peer-reviewed literature assessing their performance, 
and highlight the utility and limitations of each assay. The goal of this 
article is to provide a comprehensive, evidence-based foundation for clinicians 
regarding the management of patients with difficult pigmented lesions.

Copyright © 2020 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2020.03.122
PMID: 32360759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Blood. 2020 Jul 23;136(4):455-467. doi: 10.1182/blood.2019004443.

A minority of T cells recognizing tumor-associated antigens presented in 
self-HLA can provoke antitumor reactivity.

Roex MCJ(1), Hageman L(1), Veld SAJ(1), van Egmond E(1), Hoogstraten C(1), 
Stemberger C(2), Germeroth L(2), Einsele H(3), Falkenburg JHF(1), Jedema I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Juno Therapeutics GmbH, a Celgene Company, Munich, Germany; and.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine II, University Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, 
Germany.

Comment in
    Blood. 2020 Jul 23;136(4):378-380.

Tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) are monomorphic self-antigens that are proposed 
as targets for immunotherapeutic approaches to treat malignancies. We 
investigated whether T cells with sufficient avidity to recognize naturally 
overexpressed self-antigens in the context of self-HLA can be found in the 
T-cell repertoire of healthy donors. Minor histocompatibility antigen 
(MiHA)-specific T cells were used as a model, as the influence of thymic 
selection on the T-cell repertoire directed against MiHA can be studied in both 
self (MiHApos donors) and non-self (MiHAneg donors) backgrounds. T-cell clones 
directed against the HLA*02:01-restricted MiHA HA-1H were isolated from 
HA-1Hneg/HLA-A*02:01pos and HA-1Hpos/HLA-A*02:01pos donors. Of the 16 unique 
HA-1H-specific T-cell clones, five T-cell clones derived from 
HA-1Hneg/HLA-A*02:01pos donors and one T-cell clone derived from an 
HA-1Hpos/HLA-A*02:01pos donor showed reactivity against HA-1Hpos target cells. 
In addition, in total, 663 T-cell clones (containing at least 91 unique clones 
expressing different T-cell receptors) directed against HLA*02:01-restricted 
peptides of TAA WT1-RMF, RHAMM-ILS, proteinase-3-VLQ, PRAME-VLD, and 
NY-eso-1-SLL were isolated from HLA-A*02:01pos donors. Only 3 PRAME-VLD-specific 
and one NY-eso-1-SLL-specific T-cell clone provoked interferon-γ production 
and/or cytolysis upon stimulation with HLA-A*02:01pos malignant cell lines (but 
not primary malignant samples) naturally overexpressing the TAA. These results 
show that self-HLA-restricted T cells specific for self-antigens such as MiHA in 
MiHApos donors and TAAs are present in peripheral blood of healthy individuals. 
However, clinical efficacy would require highly effective in vivo priming by 
peptide vaccination in the presence of proper adjuvants or in vitro expansion of 
the low numbers of self-antigen-specific T cells of sufficient avidity to 
recognize endogenously processed antigen.

© 2020 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.2019004443
PMID: 32483595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. J Immunother. 2020 Jul/Aug;43(6):204-215. doi: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000322.

WT1, PRAME, and PR3 mRNA Expression in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML).

Steger B(1)(2), Floro L(1)(2), Amberger DC(2), Kroell T(2), Tischer J(2), Kolb 
HJ(1)(2), Schmetzer HM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Center Munich, German Research Center for Environmental Health.
(2)Med III, Department for Haematopoietic Transplantations, Großhadern Clinic, 
University of Munich, Munich, Germany.

Several tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) were recently identified, that could 
qualify as targets for immunotherapy, they could qualify (on RNA-level) for 
monitoring of tumor load. Here, we studied the expression levels of the 
immunogenic antigens PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma), WT1 
(Wilms' tumor gene), and PR3 (proteinase 3) on myeloid blasts by real-time 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction and correlated these data to the state 
and course of disease and to the defined subgroups of acute myeloid leukemia 
(AML). At first diagnoses, 41 of 47 patients tested showed overexpression of 
PRAME (87%), 38 of WT1 (81%), and 26 of PR3 (55%), with the highest expression 
levels for PRAME (2048-fold), followed by WT1 (486-fold) and PR3 (196-fold). 
Thereby, with 70%, the most frequent combination at first diagnoses was detected 
to be PRAME and WT1 (33/47 patients). Overall, 21 patients (45%) revealed 
overexpression for all 3 TAAs. Moreover, the highest expression levels of PRAME 
were found to be correlated with the FAB subtype M5, cytogenetic unfavorable 
risk groups, and AMLs arising from myelodysplasia (secondary AML; P=0.02). To 
compare TAA expression levels in the course of disease, expression data were 
calculatory adjusted to 100% blasts, revealing a relative increase in the PRAME 
expression levels during the course of persistent disease (3/4 cases). 
Independent of stage of disease, by trend, higher TAA expression levels were 
found on blasts derived from peripheral blood than those derived from the bone 
marrow. In conclusion, it is suggested that vaccine strategies for cancer 
immunotherapy should comprise different TAA peptides anticipating the diverse 
TAA expression levels on blasts evolving during the course of disease or 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/CJI.0000000000000322
PMID: 32502139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Drugs Dermatol. 2020 Mar 1;19(3):257-262.

Real-World Utility of a Non-Invasive Gene Expression Test to Rule Out Primary 
Cutaneous Melanoma: A Large US Registry Study.

Brouha B, Ferris LK, Skelsey MK, Peck G, Moy R, Yao Z, Jansen B.

PMID: 32550693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Int J Mol Sci. 2020 Jun 24;21(12):4487. doi: 10.3390/ijms21124487.

Meta-Analysis of Gene Expressions in Testicular Germ Cell Tumor Histologies.

von Eyben FE(1), Parraga-Alava J(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Center of Tobacco Control Research, DK-5230 Odense M, Denmark.
(2)Facultad de Ciencias Informaticas, Universidad Tecnica de Manabi, Portoviejo 
130105, Ecuador.
(3)Departamento de Ingenieria Informatica, Universidad de Santiago de Chile, 
Santiago 9170020, Chile.

There is no consensus as to how a precursor lesion, germ cell neoplasia in situ 
(GCNIS), develops into the histologic types of testicular germ cell tumor type 
II (TGCT). The present meta-analysis examined RNA expressions of 24 candidate 
genes in three datasets. They included 203 samples of normal testis (NT) and 
histologic types of TGCT. The Fisher's test for combined p values was used for 
meta-analysis of the RNA expressions in the three datasets. The histologic types 
differed in RNA expression of PRAME, KIT, SOX17, NANOG, KLF4, POU5F1, RB1, 
DNMT3B, and LIN28A (p < 0.01). The histologic types had concordant differences 
in RNA expression of the genes in the three datasets. Eight genes had overlap 
with a high RNA expression in at least two histologic types. In contrast, only 
seminoma (SE) had a high RNA expression of KLF4 and only embryonal carcinoma 
(EC) had a high RNA expression of DNMT3B. In conclusion, the meta-analysis 
showed that the development of the histologic types of TGCT was driven by 
changes in RNA expression of candidate genes. According to the RNA expressions 
of the ten genes, TGCT develops from NT over GCNIS, SE, EC, to the 
differentiated types of TGCT.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms21124487
PMCID: PMC7349960
PMID: 32599785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


316. Dokl Biochem Biophys. 2020 May;492(1):135-138. doi:
10.1134/S1607672920030072.  Epub 2020 Jul 6.

Epitope Analysis of Murine and Chimeric Monoclonal Antibodies Recognizing the 
Cancer Testis Antigen PRAME.

Misyurin VA(1), Finashutina YP(2), Turba AA(3), Larina MV(2), Solopova ON(2), 
Lyzhko NA(2), Kesaeva LA(2), Kasatkina NN(2), Aliev TK(2)(4), Misyurin AV(3), 
Kirpichnikov MP(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Blokhin Russian Cancer Research Center, Ministry of Health of the Russian 
Federation, Moscow, Russia. vsevolod.misyurin@gmail.com.
(2)Blokhin Russian Cancer Research Center, Ministry of Health of the Russian 
Federation, Moscow, Russia.
(3)OOO Genotechnologiya, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Moscow, Russia.
(5)Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.

We investigated the epitope specificity of different monoclonal antibodies 
recognizing the cancer testis antigen PRAME. Antibody 5D3 binds to the fragment 
of PRAME corresponding to 160-180 amino acid residues. Antibodies 6H8 and F11 
bind to the fragment corresponding to 180-200 amino acid residues of PRAME. 
These antibodies retained the ability to recognize these PRAME fragments after 
chimerization.

DOI: 10.1134/S1607672920030072
PMID: 32632590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. J Cutan Pathol. 2020 Dec;47(12):1226-1228. doi: 10.1111/cup.13812. Epub 2020
Sep  10.

Diffuse PRAME expression is highly specific for malignant melanoma in the 
distinction from clear cell sarcoma.

Raghavan SS(1), Wang JY(1)(2), Toland A(1), Bangs CD(1), Rieger KE(1)(2), Novoa 
RA(1)(2), Charville GW(1), Brown RA(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.13812
PMID: 32681554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. J Cutan Pathol. 2020 Dec;47(12):1123-1131. doi: 10.1111/cup.13818. Epub 2020
Sep  10.

PRAME expression in melanocytic proliferations with intermediate histopathologic 
or spitzoid features.

Raghavan SS(1), Wang JY(2)(3), Kwok S(2), Rieger KE(2)(3), Novoa RA(2)(3), Brown 
RA(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia School of Medicine, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo 
Alto, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) has shown 
utility in distinguishing melanoma from benign melanocytic lesions, but 
knowledge of its expression pattern in intermediate melanocytic and spitzoid 
proliferations is limited.
METHODS: Immunohistochemical expression of PRAME was examined in 112 melanocytic 
proliferations with intermediate histopathologic or spitzoid features.
RESULTS: Any intensity of nuclear PRAME staining in at least 60% of lesional 
melanocytes was determined as the best threshold for diffuse staining in this 
cohort. Nearly all non-spitzoid melanomas (23/24; 95.8%) demonstrated diffuse 
PRAME expression. PRAME was completely negative in 95.6% (43/45) of 
mitotically-active nevi, traumatized nevi, nevi with persistent/recurrent 
features, and dysplastic nevi. Most Spitz nevi (15/20) and atypical Spitz tumors 
(10/13) entirely lacked PRAME expression. One Spitz nevus, one atypical Spitz 
tumor, and one spitzoid melanoma (1/2) demonstrated diffuse PRAME expression.
CONCLUSIONS: Although diffuse PRAME expression is generally limited to malignant 
melanoma, benign Spitz nevi and atypical Spitz tumors can infrequently express 
diffuse PRAME. PRAME immunohistochemistry can be useful in the evaluation of 
atypical melanocytic proliferations with intermediate histopathologic features 
but should be interpreted with caution in the setting of spitzoid neoplasms.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S . Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.13818
PMID: 32700786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Am J Dermatopathol. 2020 Aug;42(8):625-627. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000001607.

Differential Expression of Cancer Testis Antigens on Lentigo Maligna and Lentigo 
Maligna Melanoma.

Tio D(1), Willemsen M(1), Krebbers G(1), Kasiem FR(1), Hoekzema R(1), van Doorn 
R(2), Bekkenk MW(1), Luiten RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Netherlands Institute for Pigment Disorders, 
Amsterdam UMC, Amsterdam Infection & Immunity Institute, Cancer Center 
Amsterdam, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands; and.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, the 
Netherlands.

The cancer/testis antigens (CTA) are a group of antigens expressed on germ cells 
of healthy testis and malignant tumors. We studied whether CTA are present on 
lentigo maligna (LM) and LM melanoma (LMM) samples. Immunohistochemical 
expression of a panel of CTA (MAGE-A1, A2- A3, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, SSX-2, and a 
MAGE-A antibody reactive with -A1, -A2, -A3, -A4, -A6, -A10, and -A12) was 
investigated in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded samples from LMM (n = 20), LM 
(n = 8), chronically sun-exposed skin (n = 7), and healthy skin (n = 7). In 4 
LMM lesions, the MAGE-A marker was positive. Another 3 LMM lesions were positive 
for MAGE-A1, MAGE-A2, and MAGE-A3. PRAME was positive in 18/20 LMM and 6/8 LM. 
We did not find expression of MAGE, NY-ESO-1, or SSX-2 in LM, thereby excluding 
these CTA as diagnostic markers to discern malignant melanocytes in LM from 
normal melanocytes. LMM did express MAGE, NY-ESO-1, and SSX-2. If a biopsy from 
a lesion suspect for LM shows positivity for MAGE, NY-ESO-1, and SSX-2, the 
lesion may actually be LMM. In contrast, PRAME expression was found in LM at low 
levels and in LMM at much higher levels, and absent in normal melanocytes. PRAME 
can potentially be used to discern normal melanocytes from malignant 
melanocytes.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000001607
PMID: 32701706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Sci Rep. 2020 Jul 23;10(1):12286. doi: 10.1038/s41598-020-69260-z.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma as a novel diagnostic marker 
differentiating thymic squamous cell carcinoma from thymoma.

Taniguchi Y(#)(1), Ishida M(#)(2), Saito T(1), Ryota H(3), Utsumi T(1), Maru 
N(1), Matsui H(1), Hino H(1), Tsuta K(2), Murakawa T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Kansai Medical University, 2-5-1 Shinmachi, 
Hirakata, Osaka, 573-1010, Japan.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Kansai Medical University, 
2-5-1 Shinmachi, Hirakata, Osaka, 573-1010, Japan.
(3)Department of Surgery, Kansai Medical University, 2-5-1 Shinmachi, Hirakata, 
Osaka, 573-1010, Japan.
(4)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Kansai Medical University, 2-5-1 Shinmachi, 
Hirakata, Osaka, 573-1010, Japan. murakawt@hirakata.kmu.ac.jp.
(#)Contributed equally

Thymic squamous cell carcinoma (TSQCC), accounting for 70-80% of thymic 
carcinoma cases, is distinct from thymoma. However, differential diagnosis for 
type B3 thymoma is sometimes challenging, even with established markers for 
TSQCC, including KIT and CD5, which are expressed in ~ 80% of TSQCCs and ~ 3% of 
thymomas. Novel TSQCC-specific markers would facilitate precise diagnosis and 
optimal treatment. Herein, we found that preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME) may be a novel TSQCC-specific diagnostic marker. We 
comprehensively profiled 770 immune-related mRNAs in 10 patients with TSQCC and 
two healthy controls, showing that PRAME and KIT were significantly upregulated 
in TSQCC (adjusted p values = 0.045 and 0.0011, respectively). We then examined 
PRAME expression in 17 TSQCCs and 116 thymomas via immunohistochemistry. All 17 
(100%) TSQCCs displayed diffuse and strong PRAME expression, whereas eight of 
116 (6.8%) thymomas displayed focal and weak expression (p < 0.0001). KIT and 
CD5 were positive in 17 (100%) and 16 (94.1%) TSQCCs, respectively, whereas one 
(0.9%) type B3 thymoma showed double positivity for KIT and CD5. The 
KIT-/CD5-positive type B3 thymoma was negative for PRAME. Thus, combinatorial 
evaluation of PRAME with KIT and CD5 may facilitate a more precise diagnosis of 
TSQCC.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-020-69260-z
PMCID: PMC7378236
PMID: 32704057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Tsuta has received research funding from Ono 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., as well as personal fees from Roche, MSD, and 
AstraZeneca. The remaining authors declare no competing interest.


321. Sci Transl Med. 2020 Jul 29;12(554):eaaz3339. doi:
10.1126/scitranslmed.aaz3339.

The safety and clinical effects of administering a multiantigen-targeted T cell 
therapy to patients with multiple myeloma.

Lulla PD(1), Tzannou I(2), Vasileiou S(2), Carrum G(2), Ramos CA(2), Kamble 
R(2), Wang T(2), Wu M(2), Bilgi M(2), Gee AP(2), Mukhi S(2), Chung B(2), Wang 
L(2), Watanabe A(2), Kuvalekar M(2), Jeong M(2), Li Y(2), Ketkar S(2), 
French-Kim M(2), Grilley B(2), Brenner MK(2), Heslop HE(2), Vera JF(2), Leen 
AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas 
Children's Hospital and Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX 77030, USA. 
lulla@bcm.edu.
(2)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas 
Children's Hospital and Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Multiple myeloma (MM) is an almost always incurable malignancy of plasma cells. 
Despite the advent of new therapies, most patients eventually relapse or become 
treatment-refractory. Consequently, therapies with nonoverlapping mechanisms of 
action that are nontoxic and provide long-term benefit to patients with MM are 
greatly needed. To this end, we clinically tested an autologous 
multitumor-associated antigen (mTAA)-specific T cell product for the treatment 
of patients with high-risk, relapsed or refractory MM. In this study, we 
expanded polyclonal T cells from 23 patients with MM. T cells whose native T 
cell receptors were reactive toward five myeloma-expressed target TAAs (PRAME, 
SSX2, MAGEA4, Survivin, and NY-ESO-1) were enriched ex vivo. To date, we have 
administered escalating doses of these nonengineered mTAA-specific T cells (0.5 
× 107 to 2 × 107 cells/m2) to 21 patients with MM, 9 of whom were at high risk 
of relapse after a median of 3 lines of prior therapy and 12 with active, 
relapsed or refractory disease after a median of 3.5 prior lines. The cells were 
well tolerated, with only two transient, grade III infusion-related adverse 
events. Furthermore, patients with active relapsed or refractory myeloma enjoyed 
a longer than expected progression-free survival and responders included three 
patients who achieved objective responses concomitant with detection of 
functional TAA-reactive T cell clonotypes derived from the infused mTAA product.

Copyright © 2020 The Authors, some rights reserved; exclusive licensee American 
Association for the Advancement of Science. No claim to original U.S. Government 
Works.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.aaz3339
PMID: 32727914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Am J Dermatopathol. 2020 Dec;42(12):916-922. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000001754.

Desmoplastic Melanomas Mimicking Neurofibromas.

Gerami P(1)(2), Kim D(1), Zhang B(1), Compres EV(1), Khan AU(1), Yazdan P(1), 
Guitart J(1), Busam K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL.
(2)Robert H. Lurie Cancer Center, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL; and.
(3)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY.

Desmoplastic melanoma can be difficult to diagnose and on average have a 
significantly higher T stage at the time of diagnosis compared with conventional 
melanomas. Histologically, these tumors typically consist of spindle cells in a 
fibrous matrix. The spindle cells may display fibroblast and/or Schwann 
cell-like features. In this study, we describe the features of 12 cases of 
desmoplastic melanoma closely simulating neurofibroma. Although the spindle 
cells in these tumors may be indistinguishable from those of neurofibroma, 
features such as prominent fibroplasia (12/12), poor lateral circumscription 
(8/9), diffuse infiltration of subcutaneous tissue (7/9), and lymphoid 
aggregates (10/12) may be helpful clues to the diagnosis. No immunohistochemical 
markers were reliable in distinguishing neurofibroma-like desmoplastic melanomas 
from neurofibroma. Clinical follow-up was available in 8 cases, of which 4 were 
initially misdiagnosed as benign neoplasms and given no further re-excision. All 
4 of these cases recurred; 2 of which showed transformation to a more aggressive 
phenotype.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000001754
PMCID: PMC10117406
PMID: 32732692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: Dr. Gerami has served as 
a consultant for Myriad Genomics, DermTech Int., Merck and Castle Biosciences 
and has received honoraria for this. All other authors report no relevant 
conflicts of interest. This work is original and has not been previously 
published.


323. Mol Biol (Mosk). 2020 Jul-Aug;54(4):580-595. doi:
10.31857/S0026898420040096.

[Regulation of Gene Expression of Cancer/Testis Antigens in Colorectal Cancer 
Patients].

[Article in Russian]

Kutilin DS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)National Medical Research Centre for Oncology, Rostov-on-Don, 344037 Russia.
(2)k.denees@yandex.ru.

The transcriptional activity of genes encoding cancer/testis antigens (CTA) and 
its regulation in colorectal cancer (CRC) is not well understood. The expression 
of CTA coding genes (CT genes) and possible mechanisms for its regulation, 
including expression and copy number of DNA methyltransferase genes, copy number 
of CT genes, microRNA expression, and LINE-1 methylation in CRC were analyzed in 
this study. The relative expression levels and copy number variation of 19 
genes, MAGE-A1, -A2, -A3, -A4, -B1, -B2, GAGE-1, -3, -4, MAGEC1, BAGE, XAGE3, 
NY-ESO1, SSX2, SCP1, PRAME1, DNMT1, DNMT3A, and DNMT3B, were determined using 
real-time quantitative PCR. Quantitative methylation of LINE-1 CpG sites was 
evaluated by pyrosequencing, and multiple parallel sequencing was used to 
determine the level of microRNA expression. It was found that in colon tumor 
tissue a multidirectional destabilization of the transcriptional activity of 
DNMT3A and DNMT3B, associated with copy number variation and a change in 
expression of the CT genes BAGE, SSX2 and PRAME1, is observed. A strong positive 
correlation was found between copy number and expression of the BAGE, SSX2, and 
PRAME1 genes. As a result of multiple parallel sequencing, 6 differentially 
expressed microRNAs (hsa-miR-143-3p, hsa-miR-26a-5p, hsa-miR-25-3p, 
hsa-miR-92a-3p, hsa-miR-21-5p, and hsa-let-7i-5p), targeting the CT genes GAGE1, 
SSX2, PRAME, SCP1, and the gene for DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A), were 
found. Data on the mechanisms of the transcriptional activity regulation of CT 
genes in malignant colon tumors are important for the development of 
CTA-dependent immunotherapeutic approaches for the treatment of this type of 
tumor.

DOI: 10.31857/S0026898420040096
PMID: 32799221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Onco Targets Ther. 2020 Jul 31;13:7545-7553. doi: 10.2147/OTT.S240979. 
eCollection 2020.

Both Methylation and Copy Number Variation Participated in the Varied Expression 
of PRAME in Multiple Myeloma.

Yang L(1), Dao FT(1), Chang Y(1), Wang YZ(1), Li LD(1), Chen WM(1), Long LY(1), 
Liu YR(1), Lu J(1), Liu KY(1), Qin YZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Peking University People's Hospital, Peking University Institute of 
Hematology, National Clinical Research Center for Hematologic Disease, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China.

PURPOSE: The cancer-testis antigen, which is a preferentially expressed antigen 
of melanoma (PRAME), is an ideal target for immunotherapy and cancer vaccines. 
Since the expression of this antigen is relevant to therapy responses, the 
heterogeneity in its expression and the underlying mechanism need to be 
investigated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Plasma cell sorting was performed in 48 newly diagnosed 
multiple myeloma (MM) patients. Real-time quantitative PCR was performed to 
examine the PRAME transcript levels and gene copy numbers. Bisulfate clone 
sequencing of the PRAME promoter and exon 1b regions was performed in 4 
patients. Quantitative methylation-specific PCR of the +287 CpG site was 
performed for all patients. The human MM cell lines RPMI8226, LP-1 and MOLP-2 
were treated with 5-azacytidine.
RESULTS: The median PRAME transcript level was 3.1% (range: 0-298.3%) in the 
plasma cells sorted from the 48 MM patients. Eleven (22.9%) and 37 (77.1%) 
patients were individually categorized into the PRAME low- and high-expression 
groups according to the cut-off value of 0.05%. The methylation ratios of the 
promoter and the 3' region of exon 1b region were both negatively related to the 
transcript levels. The degrees of methylation at the +287 CpG site were 
significantly negatively related to the transcript levels in all 48 patients 
(r=-0.44, P=0.0018), and those in the high-expression group (r=-0.69, P<0.0001) 
but not those in the low-expression group (r=-0.27, P=0.43). All 5 patients with 
homozygous deletions were categorized into the low-expression group. There were 
no significant differences in the PRAME transcript levels between the hemizygous 
deletion (n=8) and no deletion (n=35) groups (P=0.40). Furthermore, the PRAME 
transcript levels significantly increased in the MM cell lines after treatment 
with 5-azacytidine.
CONCLUSION: Both methylation and copy number variation may participate in the 
regulation of PRAME expression in MM; in patients with no homozygous deletion, 
PRAME expression is mainly controlled by methylation, and a proportion of fairly 
low expression is caused by homozygous deletion.

© 2020 Yang et al.

DOI: 10.2147/OTT.S240979
PMCID: PMC7402861
PMID: 32801773

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


325. J Immunother Cancer. 2020 Aug;8(2):e000875. doi: 10.1136/jitc-2020-000875.

Rapid tumor vaccine using Toll-like receptor-activated ovarian cancer ascites 
monocytes.

Adams SF(#)(1)(2), Grimm AJ(#)(3)(4), Chiang CL(3)(4), Mookerjee A(1), Flies 
D(2), Jean S(1), McCann GA(5), Michaux J(3)(4), Pak H(3)(4), Huber F(3)(4), Neal 
C(3), Dangaj D(3)(4), Bassani-Sternberg M(3)(4), Rusakiewicz S(3)(4), Facciabene 
A(1), Coukos G(3)(4), Gimotty PA(6), Kandalaft LE(7)(4).

Author information:
(1)Ovarian Cancer Research Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of New Mexico Comprehensive 
Cancer Center, Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA.
(3)Department of Oncology, Lausanne University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(4)Ludwig Institute for Cancer Research, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(5)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of Texas Health Science Center 
at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, USA.
(6)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(7)Department of Oncology, Lausanne University Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland 
Lana.Kandalaft@chuv.ch.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Novel therapeutic strategies in ovarian cancer (OC) are needed as 
the survival rate remains dismally low. Although dendritic cell-based cancer 
vaccines are effective in eliciting therapeutic responses, their complex and 
costly manufacturing process hampers their full clinical utility outside 
specialized clinics. Here, we describe a novel approach of generating a rapid 
and effective cancer vaccine using ascites-derived monocytes for treating OC.
METHODS: Using the ID8 mouse ovarian tumor model and OC patient samples, we 
isolated ascites monocytes and evaluated them with flow cytometry, Luminex 
cytokine and chemokine array analysis, ex vivo cocultures with T cells, in vivo 
tumor challenge and T cell transfer experiments, RNA-sequencing and mass 
spectrometry.
RESULTS: We demonstrated the feasibility of isolating ascites monocytes and 
restoring their ability to function as bona fide antigen-presenting cells (APCs) 
with Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 lipopolysaccharide and TLR9 
CpG-oligonucleotides, and a blocking antibody to interleukin-10 receptor (IL-10R 
Ab) in the ID8 model. The ascites monocytes were laden with tumor antigens at a 
steady state in vivo. After a short 48 hours activation, they upregulated 
maturation markers (CD80, CD86 and MHC class I) and demonstrated strong ex vivo 
T cell stimulatory potential and effectively suppressed tumor and malignant 
ascites in vivo. They also induced protective long-term T cell memory responses. 
To evaluate the translational potential of this approach, we isolated ascites 
monocytes from stage III/IV chemotherapy-naïve OC patients. Similarly, the human 
ascites monocytes presented tumor-associated antigens (TAAs), including MUC1, 
ERBB2, mesothelin, MAGE, PRAME, GPC3, PMEL and TP53 at a steady state. After a 
48-hour treatment with TLR4 and IL-10R Ab, they efficiently stimulated 
oligoclonal tumor-associated lymphocytes (TALs) with strong reactivity against 
TAAs. Importantly, the activated ascites monocytes retained their ability to 
activate TALs in the presence of ascitic fluid.
CONCLUSIONS: Ascites monocytes are naturally loaded with tumor antigen and can 
perform as potent APCs following short ex vivo activation. This novel ascites 
APC vaccine can be rapidly prepared in 48 hours with a straightforward and 
affordable manufacturing process, and would be an attractive therapeutic vaccine 
for OC.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2020. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jitc-2020-000875
PMCID: PMC7430560
PMID: 32817208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


326. Pathol Res Pract. 2020 Sep;216(9):153105. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2020.153105.
Epub  2020 Jul 11.

The diagnostic utility of PRAME and p16 in distinguishing nodal nevi from nodal 
metastatic melanoma.

See SHC(1), Finkelman BS(2), Yeldandi AV(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address: sharlene.see@northwestern.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.

The status of the sentinel lymph node is the strongest predictor of recurrence 
in patients with malignant melanoma, making accurate distinction between nodal 
metastases and nodal nevi of paramount importance. We explored the utility of 
p16 and PRAME in differentiating nodal nevi from metastatic melanoma by 
immunohistochemistry. We searched our institutional database for cases of nodal 
nevi and nodal metastatic melanoma. p16 and PRAME expression were assessed with 
immunolabeling quantified by extent of nuclear positivity (0-25 %, >25 %-50 %, 
>50 %-75 % and >75 %). Sensitivities and specificities were calculated, and 
discrimination assessed using the area under the receiver operating 
characteristic curve (AUC). Forty-nine cases out of 51 nevi and 56/56 melanoma 
cases had lesional tissue present for p16, while 44/51 nevi and 54/56 melanoma 
cases had lesional tissue present for PRAME. 43 nodal nevi (88 %) had >50 % 
nuclear staining for p16, while none had >50 % staining for PRAME. More than 
half (55 %) of melanoma cases had complete loss of nuclear staining for p16, 
while majority (94 %) had >50 % nuclear staining for PRAME. Using a cut-off 
value of 50 %, higher PRAME expression had a sensitivity and specificity of 94 % 
and 100 %, respectively, while lower p16 expression had a sensitivity and 
specificity of 66 % and 88 %, respectively, for detecting metastatic melanoma. 
PRAME showed significantly better discrimination (AUC = 0.97, 95 % CI 0.94-1.00) 
than p16 (AUC = 0.77, 95 % CI 0.68-0.86) for differentiating nodal nevi from 
nodal melanoma (P < 0.001). Our findings suggest that PRAME is more accurate 
than p16 in discriminating between the two entities, with excellent sensitivity 
and specificity.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2020.153105
PMID: 32825968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. J Leukoc Biol. 2020 Oct;108(4):1307-1318. doi: 10.1002/JLB.5MA0720-710RRR.
Epub  2020 Aug 22.

High infiltration of B cells in tertiary lymphoid structures, TCR 
oligoclonality, and neoantigens are part of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma 
microenvironment.

Barros LRC(1), Souza-Santos PT(1), Pretti MAM(1)(2), Vieira GF(3)(4), Bragatte 
MAS(4), Mendes MFA(4), De Freitas MV(4), Scherer NM(2), De Oliveira IM(5), 
Rapozo DCM(5), Fernandes PV(5), Simão TA(6), Soares-Lima SC(1), Boroni M(2), 
Ribeiro Pinto LF(1)(6), Bonamino MH(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Carcinogênese Molecular, Instituto Nacional de Câncer-INCA, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)Laboratório de Bioinformática e Biologia Computacional, Instituto Nacional de 
Câncer, INCA.
(3)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Saúde e Desenvolvimento Humano, Universidade La 
Salle, Canoas, Brazil.
(4)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Genética e Biologia Molecular, Universidade 
Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), Porto Alegre, Brazil.
(5)Divisão de Patologia, Instituto Nacional de Câncer, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(6)Departamento de Bioquímica, IBRAG, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(7)Vice-Presidência de Pesquisa e Coleções Biológicas (VPPCB), Fundação Oswaldo 
Cruz, FIOCRUZ, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCA) exhibits high intratumoral molecular 
heterogeneity posing a challenge to cancer therapy. Immune checkpoint blockade 
therapy has been approved for this disease, but with modest results. RNA-Seq 
data from paired tumor and surrounding nonmalignant tissue from 14 patients 
diagnosed with ESCA without previous treatment and from The Cancer Genome 
Atlas-ESCA cohort were analyzed. Herein, we investigated ESCA immune landscape 
including mutation-derived neoantigens and immune cell subpopulations. 
Tumor-associated antigen expression was determined by in silico analyses and 
confirmed by immunohistochemistry showing that PRAME, CEACAM4, and MAGEA11 
proteins are expressed on tumors. Immune checkpoint molecules gene expression 
was higher in the tumor compared with surrounding nonmalignant tissue, but its 
expression varies greatly among patients. TCR repertoire and BCR transcripts 
analysis evidenced low clonal diversity with one TCR clone predicted to be 
specific for a MAGEA11-derived peptide. A high number of B-cell clones 
infiltrating the tumors and the abundance of these cells in tertiary lymphoid 
structures observed in ESCA tumors support B cells as a potential immune 
modulator in this tumor.

©2020 Society for Leukocyte Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/JLB.5MA0720-710RRR
PMID: 32827331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Int J Gynecol Pathol. 2021 Jul 1;40(4):349-354. doi: 
10.1097/PGP.0000000000000715.

Uterine Cellular Blue Nevus Arising in Mullerian and Pelvic Dendritic 
Melanocytosis: Case Report of a Rare Phenomenon to Be Distinguished From Uterine 
Melanoma.

Cunningham CJ, Fleischman A, Buckingham L, O'Connor S, Gehrig PA, Googe PB.

A 37-yr-old woman presented to the gynecology clinic with abnormal uterine 
bleeding in the setting of known, large uterine fibroids. Preoperative 
endometrial biopsy identified atypical melanocytic cells concerning for uterine 
melanoma. Care was transferred to the gynecologic oncology service for 
hysterectomy. Intraoperative findings included macular, blue-black pigmentation 
of the peritoneum of the bladder and cervix, which was resected and sent for 
frozen section, confirming melanocytic neoplasia. The hysterectomy revealed 
multiple tan leiomyomas up to 12 cm, and a distinct 3 cm black, incompletely 
circumscribed mass in the endomyometrium composed of bland spindled cells with 
delicate melanin granules. The tumor cells were positive for Sox-10, BAP1, and 
Mart-1 (Melan-A) and negative for PRAME, PD-L1, and BRAFV600E by immunostains. 
Microscopic elements of similar melanocytes and melanophages were found in the 
cervix and bladder peritoneum. Molecular analysis of the uterine tumor 
identified a GNA11 mutation but no TERT or BAP1 mutation. The uterine 
melanocytic tumor has characteristic findings of a cellular blue nevus arising 
in association with dendritic melanocytosis of Mullerian and pelvic tissues, a 
rarely seen benign phenomenon that should be distinguished from malignant 
melanoma of the upper genital tract.

Copyright © 2020 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.

DOI: 10.1097/PGP.0000000000000715
PMID: 32925442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


329. Ann Diagn Pathol. 2020 Dec;49:151622. doi:
10.1016/j.anndiagpath.2020.151622.  Epub 2020 Sep 7.

High-grade sinonasal carcinomas and surveillance of differential expression in 
immune related transcriptome.

Bell D(1), Bell A(2), Ferrarotto R(3), Glisson B(3), Takahashi Y(4), Fuller 
G(2), Weber R(4), Hanna E(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, United States of America; Department 
Head and Neck Surgery, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 
Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, United States of America. Electronic address: 
diana.bell@mdanderson.org.
(2)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, United States of America.
(3)Thoracic-Head and Neck Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, United States of America.
(4)Department Head and Neck Surgery, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, 1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, United States of America.

The skull base is the location of a wide variety of malignant tumors. Among them 
is sinonasal undifferentiated carcinoma (SNUC), a highly aggressive sinonasal 
neoplasm that was recently reclassified into subgroups of high-grade carcinomas 
with unique genomic events (e.g., SMARC-deficient carcinoma, nuclear protein in 
testis NUT carcinoma). Other high-grade carcinomas in this location are 
neuroendocrine carcinomas, sinonasal adenocarcinomas, and teratocarcinosarcomas. 
Given the rarity of these tumors, little transcriptomic data is available. The 
aim of this study was to characterize the immune-oncology gene expression 
profile in SNUC and other high-grade sinonasal carcinomas. Next-generation 
sequencing was performed in 30 high-grade sinonasal carcinoma samples using the 
HTG EdgeSeq Precision Immuno-Oncology Panel. Ingenuity pathway analysis was 
performed to understand the immunobiology, signaling, and functional 
perturbations during tumor development. The samples were divided into 3 groups: 
21 SNUCs and SMARC-deficient sinonasal carcinomas; 5 high-grade neuroendocrine 
carcinomas (HGNECs), with small cell and large cell variants; and 4 high-grade 
sinonasal carcinomas (HGSNCs) of mixed histology (1 NUT carcinoma, 1 
teratocarcinosarcoma, and 2 sinonasal adenocarcinomas). PRAME and ASCL1 emerged 
as upregulated transcripts with strong protein validation for SNUC and HGNEC; 
other upregulated candidates EZH2 and BRCA1 offer consideration for alternative 
targeted therapy, and downregulation of major histocompatibility complex 
molecules and chemokines represent another hurdle in the development of 
effective immunotherapy. This immune-oncology gene expression analysis of 3 
groups of high-grade sinonasal carcinoma with emphasis on SNUC identified a 
number of differentially expressed transcripts reflecting effects on 
tumorigenesis. Identification of immune pathways should be further investigated 
for possible integration of immunotherapy into a multidisciplinary approach to 
these cancers and personalized treatment.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anndiagpath.2020.151622
PMID: 32927372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Apr;48(4):479-485. doi: 10.1111/cup.13876. Epub 2020
Nov 8.

PRAME expression in 155 cases of metastatic melanoma.

Gradecki SE(1), Slingluff CL Jr(2), Gru AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, 
USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, Division of Surgical Oncology, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.

BACKGROUND: PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma) is a promising 
immunohistochemical marker in distinguishing benign from malignant primary 
cutaneous melanocytic lesions and lymph node deposits. We hypothesize that PRAME 
may also reliably identify melanoma metastases that are clinically detected in 
skin, lymph nodes, or small intestine.
METHODS: A total of 155 cases of metastatic melanoma to lymph node (N = 54) and 
non-lymph node (N = 101) sites were stained with an antibody against PRAME. 
Nuclear expression was scored in tumor cells as negative, 1% to 25% (1+), 26% to 
50% (2+), 51% to 75% (3+), or 76% to 100% (4+).
RESULTS: PRAME expression was seen in 151/155 (97.4%) cases, with 4+ expression 
in 64 cases (41.3%), 3+ expression in 46 cases (29.7%), 2+ expression in 18 
cases (11.6%), and 1+ expression in 23 cases (14.8%). Lymph node metastases were 
more likely to show lower expression as compared to metastases to other anatomic 
sites (P = 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: A high level of PRAME immunoreactivity was identified in this 
cohort of metastatic melanoma. Lymph node metastases showed more focal or absent 
PRAME expression as compared to metastases to other sites. Overall, PRAME is a 
useful tool for confirming the diagnosis of melanoma in a metastatic setting, in 
both nodal and visceral deposits.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.13876
PMID: 32939793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Arch Med Res. 2020 Nov;51(8):827-838. doi: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2020.09.008.
Epub  2020 Sep 16.

Pathology-based Biomarkers Useful for Clinical Decisions in Melanoma.

Torres-Cabala C(1), Li-Ning-Tapia E(2), Hwu WJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX, USA; Department of Dermatology, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. Electronic address: ctcabala@mdanderson.org.
(2)Department of Translational Molecular Pathology, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Department of Melanoma Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.

The dramatic recent advances in therapy of melanoma require a more personalized 
and precise diagnostic approach to aid in clinical decisions. Tissue-based 
biomarkers in pathology have diagnostic, prognostic and predictive relevance. 
Herein we review the most commonly used pathology-based biomarkers in melanoma. 
Most of these biomarkers are evaluated through immunohistochemistry (IHC) or 
fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) performed on formalin fixed paraffin 
embedded tissue (FFPE), and are widely available in clinical pathology 
laboratories. We describe the utility of MART1/Ki67, p16, PRAME, markers of 
lymphovascular invasion (D2-40, CD31, D2-40/MITF, CD31/SOX-10), BRAF V600E, 
NRAS, KIT, BAP1, ALK, NTRK, PD-L1, TERT, PTEN, iNOS, and MMR proteins (MLH1, 
MSH2, MSH6, PMS2) in the evaluation of melanoma specimens. Correct 
interpretation and awareness of the significance of these biomarkers is crucial 
for pathologists, dermatologists, and oncologists who take care of melanoma 
patients.

Copyright © 2020 IMSS. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2020.09.008
PMID: 32950263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Cancers (Basel). 2020 Sep 30;12(10):2832. doi: 10.3390/cancers12102832.

Transcriptome Profiling Reveals New Insights into the Immune Microenvironment 
and Upregulation of Novel Biomarkers in Metastatic Uveal Melanoma.

Krishna Y(1)(2), Acha-Sagredo A(2), Sabat-Pośpiech D(2), Kipling N(2), Clarke 
K(3), Figueiredo CR(4), Kalirai H(2), Coupland SE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Clinical Laboratories, Liverpool University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Duncan Building, Daulby Street, Liverpool L69 3GA, UK.
(2)Liverpool Ocular Oncology Research Centre, Department of Molecular and 
Clinical Cancer Medicine, University of Liverpool, William Henry Duncan 
Building, West Derby Street, Liverpool L7 8TX, UK.
(3)Computational Biology Facility, Biosciences Building, University of 
Liverpool, Crown Street, Liverpool L69 7ZB, UK.
(4)MediCity Research Laboratory and Institute of Biomedicine, University of 
Turku, Turun yliopisto, FI-20014 Turku, Finland.

Metastatic uveal melanoma (mUM) to the liver is incurable. Transcriptome 
profiling of 40 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded mUM liver resections and 6 
control liver specimens was undertaken. mUMs were assessed for morphology, 
nuclear BAP1 (nBAP1) expression, and their tumour microenvironments (TME) using 
an "immunoscore" (absent/altered/high) for tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes 
(TILs) and macrophages (TAMs). Transcriptomes were compared between mUM and 
control liver; intersegmental and intratumoural analyses were also undertaken. 
Most mUM were epithelioid cell-type (75%), amelanotic (55%), and nBAP1-ve (70%). 
They had intermediate (68%) or absent (15%) immunoscores for TILs and 
intermediate (53%) or high (45%) immunoscores for TAMs. M2-TAMs were dominant in 
the mUM-TME, with upregulated expression of ANXA1, CD74, CXCR4, MIF, STAT3, 
PLA2G6, and TGFB1. Compared to control liver, mUM showed significant (p < 0.01) 
upregulation of 10 genes: DUSP4, PRAME, CD44, IRF4/MUM1, BCL2, CD146/MCAM/MUC18, 
IGF1R, PNMA1, MFGE8/lactadherin, and LGALS3/Galectin-3. Protein expression of 
DUSP4, CD44, IRF4, BCL-2, CD146, and IGF1R was validated in all mUMs, whereas 
protein expression of PRAME was validated in 10% cases; LGALS3 stained TAMs, and 
MFGEF8 highlighted bile ducts only. Intersegmental mUMs show differing 
transcriptomes, whereas those within a single mUM were similar. Our results show 
that M2-TAMs dominate mUM-TME with upregulation of genes contributing to 
immunosuppression. mUM significantly overexpress genes with targetable 
signalling pathways, and yet these may differ between intersegmental lesions.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers12102832
PMCID: PMC7650807
PMID: 33008022

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


333. Mod Pathol. 2021 May;34(5):951-960. doi: 10.1038/s41379-020-00687-5. Epub
2020  Oct 2.

RNA expression profiling reveals PRAME, a potential immunotherapy target, is 
frequently expressed in solitary fibrous tumors.

Wang WL(1), Gokgoz N(2), Samman B(3), Andrulis IL(2)(3)(4), Wunder JS(2)(5), 
Demicco EG(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology & Translational Molecular Pathology, The University 
of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Sinai Health System, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(3)Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada.
(4)Department of Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(5)University of Toronto Musculoskeletal Oncology Unit, Mount Sinai Hospital, 
and Division of Orthopaedic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(6)Lunenfeld-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Sinai Health System, Toronto, ON, 
Canada. Elizabeth.Demicco@sinaihealth.ca.
(7)Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, 
Canada. Elizabeth.Demicco@sinaihealth.ca.
(8)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Mount Sinai Hospital, 
Toronto, ON, Canada. Elizabeth.Demicco@sinaihealth.ca.

Solitary fibrous tumors are a type of translocation-associated sarcoma with up 
to 30% rates of metastasis and poor response to conventional chemotherapy. Other 
translocation-associated sarcomas have been shown to display elevated expression 
of various cancer-testis antigens which may render them susceptible to 
immunotherapy strategies such as cancer vaccines and adoptive T-cell therapy. 
After an RNA sequencing assay brought the cancer-testis antigen Preferentially 
Expressed Antigen In Melanoma (PRAME) to our attention as possibly being 
upregulated in aggressive TERT promoter-mutated solitary fibrous tumors, we used 
tissue microarrays to asses PRAME expression in a large series of previously 
characterized solitary fibrous tumors, with correlation to various 
clinicopathologic features, as well as with tumor-infiltrating macrophages and 
the associated signal regulatory protein α (SIRPα)-CD47 regulatory checkpoint. 
We found that PRAME was expressed in 165/180 solitary fibrous tumors, with high 
expression seen in 58%, irrespective of TERT promoter status. Elevated PRAME 
expression was more frequent in primary intrathoracic solitary fibrous tumors 
and correlated with older age at primary diagnosis. Elevated PRAME was also 
associated with features suggestive of immune evasion, including lower numbers 
of antigen-presenting CD163+ and CD68+ macrophages, and expression of the "don't 
eat me" receptor CD47 on tumor cells. Taken together, these features suggest 
that strategies targeting PRAME with or without concomitant SIRPα-CD47 axis 
inhibition may represent a potential future therapeutic option in aggressive 
solitary fibrous tumor.

DOI: 10.1038/s41379-020-00687-5
PMID: 33009490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2020 Oct;28(5):1750-1756. doi: 
10.19746/j.cnki.issn.1009-2137.2020.05.053.

[Clinical Research of Dendritic Cell-Mediated Tumor-Associated Antigen-Specific 
Cytotoxic T Lymphocytes in the Treatment of Multiple Myeloma and Non-Hodgkin 
Lymphoma].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Li XH(1), Xue L(2), Xu H(2), Zhang XH(2), Liu X(2), Zhu WB(2), Wang XB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Anhui Medical 
University, Hefei 230001, Anhui Province, China.
(2)Department of Hematology, The First Affiliated Hospital of University of 
Sciences and Technoloty of China, Hefei 230001, Anhui Province, China.
(3)Department of Hematology, Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Anhui Medical 
University Hefei 230001, Anhui Province, China,Department of Hematology, The 
First Affiliated Hospital of University of Sciences and Technoloty of China, 
Hefei 230001, Anhui Province, China,E-mail: wangxingbing@ustc.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the safety and efficacy of tumor-associated 
antigen-specific cytotoxic T lympho- cytes (TAA-CTL) in the treatment of 
multiple myeloma (MM) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).
METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMNC)of patients were collected. 
Dendritic cells (DC) were loaded with multiple tumor-associated antigens (TAA) 
(NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A3, MAGE-A4, WT1, Survivin, PRAME, LMP1 and LMP2A), then 
co-cultured with PBMNC to induce cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL). The phenotypes 
of cell products were detected, and the disease statuse was evaluated in 7 
patients during or after infusion. The changes of TAA-CTL amount in the PBMNC of 
patients were measured by using IFN-γ ELISpot assay.
RESULTS: TAA-CTL products were generated comprising CD3+ T cells (mean 82.98%) 
with a mixture of CD4+ (mean 42.09%) and CD8+ (mean 25.32%) T cells. Among them, 
70% expressed effectors memory markers (CD45RO+CD62L-CCR7-). Each patient 
received TAA-CTL infusions for 1-4 times, and none of them showed obvious 
adverse reactions. The clinical symptoms and laboratory or imaging examination 
of 5 patients achieved positive effects. After cell therapy, the spot-forming 
cells (SFC) levels of most patients gradually increased and the peak often 
appeared about 2-3 weeks after the infusion.
CONCLUSION: TAA-CTLs preliminarily show its safety and efficacy in MM and NHL 
patients, however, a larger population sample is needed to explore its clinical 
application value.

Publisher: 题目: 树突状细胞介导的肿瘤相关抗原特异性T淋巴细胞治疗多发性骨髓瘤和非霍奇金淋巴瘤的临床研究.
目的: 初步探究靶向肿瘤相关抗原特异性T淋巴细胞（TAA-CTL）治疗多发性骨髓瘤（MM）和非霍奇金淋巴瘤（NHL）的安全性和有效性.
方法: 
采集患者自身外周血单个核细胞（PBMNC），使用含有多种肿瘤相关抗原（TAA）（NY-ESO-1，MAGE-A3，MAGE-A4，WT1，Survivin，PRAME，LMP2A和LMP1）的混合多肽，负载树突状细胞（DC），刺激共培养细胞毒性T细胞（CTL），测定细胞产物表型，并对7例回输后的患者进行病情评估。同时，利用IFN-γ 
ELISpot试验检测输注前、后患者外周血中TAA-CTL含量的变化.
结果: 
平均82.98%的TAA-CTL产物为CD3+T细胞，包括42.09%的CD4+T细胞和25.32%的CD8+T细胞，其中70%表达效应记忆标记（CD45RO+CD62L-CCR7-）。每例患者接受1-4次TAA-CTL回输，均无明显不良反应；5例患者的临床症状、实验室检查或影像学检查提示一定的疗效；细胞治疗后,患者外周血斑点形成细胞（SFC）数高峰期常出现在输注后2-3周左右.
结论: TAA-CTL初步显示了其对MM和NHL患者的安全性和有效性，但还需更大样本量以探讨其临床应用价值.

DOI: 10.19746/j.cnki.issn.1009-2137.2020.05.053
PMID: 33067985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Case Rep Oncol. 2020 Sep 21;13(3):1141-1144. doi: 10.1159/000510261.
eCollection  2020 Sep-Dec.

Metastatic PRAME-Expressing Juvenile Spitzoid Melanoma on the Buttock.

Muto Y(1), Fujimura T(1), Kambayashi Y(1), Ohuchi K(1), Amagai R(1), Hashimoto 
A(1), Aiba S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Sendai, Japan.

Since the cost of molecular biological methods for Spitzoid neoplasms is 
expensive, the number of institutes that employ these methods might be limited. 
Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a tumor-associated 
antigen that is useful to distinguish melanoma from other melanocytic disorders, 
including pediatric Spitzoid tumors that are difficult to diagnose by 
conventional methods alone. In this report, we report a case of PRAME-expressing 
juvenile Spitzoid melanoma with lymph node metastasis. Unexpectedly, there were 
few PRAME-expressing cells in the primary tumor, whereas most metastatic tumors 
expressed PRAME in the metastatic lymph node. These observations might suggest 
that, in Spitzoid melanomas, a limited number of melanoma cells possess 
metastatic potential and that metastatic lesions possess clonality.

Copyright © 2020 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000510261
PMCID: PMC7548925
PMID: 33082761

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interests to 
declare.


336. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Apr;48(4):597-600. doi: 10.1111/cup.13905. Epub 2020
Nov  23.

PReferentially expressed antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) expression in 
BRCA1-associated protein (BAP1)-inactivated melanocytic tumors and deep 
penetrating nevi: A pilot study.

Lopez DR(1), Forcucci JA(1), O'Connor H(1), Maize JC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Medical University of South 
Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology and Dermatologic Surgery, Medical University of 
South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.13905
PMID: 33094849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Clin Transl Immunology. 2020 Oct 21;9(10):e1200. doi: 10.1002/cti2.1200. 
eCollection 2020.

Ex vivo enrichment of PRAME antigen-specific T cells for adoptive immunotherapy 
using CD137 activation marker selection.

Lee KH(1)(2), Gowrishankar K(1), Street J(1), McGuire HM(2)(3)(4)(5), Luciani 
F(6), Hughes B(6), Singh M(7)(8), Clancy LE(1)(9), Gottlieb DJ(1)(2)(10), 
Micklethwaite KP(1)(2)(10), Blyth E(1)(2)(10).

Author information:
(1)Westmead Institute for Medical Research Westmead NSW Australia.
(2)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sydney Medical School Sydney NSW Australia.
(3)Ramaciotti Facility for Human Systems Biology The University of Sydney Sydney 
NSW Australia.
(4)Charles Perkins Centre University of Sydney Sydney NSW Australia.
(5)Discipline of Pathology Faculty of Medicine and Health The University of 
Sydney Camperdown NSW Australia.
(6)The Kirby Institute University of New South Wales Darlinghurst NSW Australia.
(7)The Garvan Institute of Medical Research Darlinghurst NSW Australia.
(8)St Vincent's Clinical School Faculty of Medicine UNSW Sydney Sydney NSW 
Australia.
(9)Sydney Cellular Therapies Laboratory Westmead NSW Australia.
(10)Department of Haematology Westmead Hospital Westmead NSW Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Adoptive immunotherapy with ex vivo expanded tumor-specific T cells 
has potential as anticancer therapy. Preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME) is an attractive target overexpressed in several cancers 
including melanoma and acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), with low expression in 
normal tissue outside the gonads. We developed a GMP-compliant manufacturing 
method for PRAME-specific T cells from healthy donors for adoptive 
immunotherapy.
METHODS: Mononuclear cells were pulsed with PRAME 15-mer overlapping peptide 
mix. After 16 h, activated cells expressing CD137 were isolated with 
immunomagnetic beads and cocultured with irradiated CD137neg fraction in medium 
supplemented with interleukin (IL)-2, IL-7 and IL-15. Cultured T cells were 
restimulated with antigen-pulsed autologous cells after 10 days. Cellular 
phenotype and cytokine response following antigen re-exposure were assessed with 
flow cytometry, enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) and supernatant cytokine 
detection. Detailed phenotypic and functional analysis with mass cytometry and 
T-cell receptor (TCR) beta clonality studies were performed on selected 
cultures.
RESULTS: PRAME-stimulated cultures (n = 10) had mean expansion of 2500-fold at 
day 18. Mean CD3+ percentage was 96% with CD4:CD8 ratio of 4:1. Re-exposure to 
PRAME peptide mixture showed enrichment of CD4 cells expressing interferon 
(IFN)-γ (mean: 12.2%) and TNF-α (mean: 19.7%). Central and effector memory cells 
were 23% and 72%, respectively, with 24% T cells expressing PD1. Mass cytometry 
showed predominance of Th1 phenotype (CXCR3+/CCR4neg/CCR6neg/Tbet+, mean: 73%) 
and cytokine production including IL-2, IL-4, IL-8, IL-13 and GM-CSF (2%, 6%, 
8%, 4% and 11%, respectively).
CONCLUSION: PRAME-specific T cells for adoptive immunotherapy were enriched from 
healthy donor mononuclear cells. The products were oligoclonal, exhibited Th1 
phenotype and produced multiple cytokines.

© 2020 The Authors. Clinical & Translational Immunology published by John Wiley 
& Sons Australia, Ltd on behalf of Australian and New Zealand Society for 
Immunology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cti2.1200
PMCID: PMC7577233
PMID: 33101678

Conflict of interest statement: EB reports advisory board membership Abbvie, 
Novartis, Astellas and MSD. DG reports advisory Board membership Abbvie, Gilead, 
Indee Labs and Novartis. KM reports advisory board membership Indee Labs. DG and 
KM report research funding from Haemalogix. EB, DG, KM and LC report patents in 
the field of adoptive cell therapy manufacture.


338. Br J Dermatol. 2021 Apr;184(4):e122. doi: 10.1111/bjd.19599. Epub 2020 Nov
2.

PRAME immunohistochemistry as an adjunct in the diagnosis of paucicellular 
lentigo maligna in a young man.

Agrawal R(1), Tso S(1), Eltigani EA(1), Busam KJ(2), Taibjee SM(3), Carr RA(1).

Author information:
(1)South Warwickshire NHS Foundation Trust, Warwickshire, UK.
(2)Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Centre, 1275 York Avenue, New York, NY, 
10065, USA.
(3)Dorset County Hospital, Dermatology Department, Williams Ave, Dorchester, DT1 
2JY, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.19599
PMID: 33140433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Cancers (Basel). 2020 Oct 31;12(11):3208. doi: 10.3390/cancers12113208.

Impact of Genetic Ancestry on Prognostic Biomarkers in Uveal Melanoma.

Rodriguez DA(1)(2)(3), Sanchez MI(1)(2)(3), Decatur CL(1)(2)(3), Correa 
ZM(1)(2)(3), Martin ER(4)(5), Harbour JW(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Miami, FL 33133, 
USA.
(2)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, Miami, FL 33133, USA.
(3)Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute, Miami, FL 33133, USA.
(4)Dr. John T. Macdonald Department of Human Genetics, University of Miami, 
Miami, FL 33133, USA.
(5)John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL 33133, USA.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common cancer of the eye and leads to metastatic 
death in up to half of patients. Genomic prognostic biomarkers play an important 
role in clinical management in UM. However, research has been conducted almost 
exclusively in patients of European descent, such that the association between 
genetic admixture and prognostic biomarkers is unknown. In this study, we 
compiled 1381 control genomes from West African, European, East Asian, and 
Native American individuals, assembled a bioinformatic pipeline for assessing 
global and local ancestry, and performed an initial pilot study of 141 UM 
patients from our international referral center that manages many admixed 
individuals. Global and local estimates were associated with genomic prognostic 
determinants. Expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) analysis was performed 
on variants found in segments. Globally, after correction for multiple testing, 
no prognostic variable was significantly enriched in a given ancestral group. 
However, there was a trend suggesting an increased proportion of European 
ancestry associated with expression of the PRAME oncogene (q = 0.06). Locally 
enriched European haplotypes were associated with the poor prognosis class 2 
gene expression profile and with genes involved in immune regulation (q = 4.7 × 
10-11). These findings reveal potential influences of genetic ancestry on 
prognostic variables, implicate immune genes in prognostic differences based on 
ancestry, and provide a basis for future studies of admixed patients with UM 
using rigorous genetic ancestry methodology.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers12113208
PMCID: PMC7693692
PMID: 33142712

Conflict of interest statement: Harbour is an inventor of intellectual property 
related to gene expression profiling in uveal melanoma. He is a paid consultant 
for Castle Biosciences, licensee of this intellectual property, and he receives 
royalties from its commercialization. All remaining authors declare no competing 
financial interests. The following authors declare no conflict of interest: 
Daniel A. Rodriguez, Margaret I. Sanchez, Christina L. Decatur, Eden R. Martin, 
and Zelia M. Correa. The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the 
collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the 
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


340. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Apr;48(4):519-525. doi: 10.1111/cup.13916. Epub 2020
Nov  25.

Aberrant expression of HMB45 and negative PRAME expression in halo nevi.

Ruby KN(1), Li Z(2), Yan S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical 
Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.
(2)Biomedical Data Science Department, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, 
Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.

BACKGROUND: Traditionally, most cutaneous nevi show a gradient of HMB45 (human 
melanoma black 45) and negative PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma) immunostaining, while melanomas often show irregularly positive, 
diffusely positive or completely negative HMB45 expression, and PRAME 
immunopositivity. However, we have occasionally observed benign halo nevi with 
loss of HMB45 gradient, raising diagnostic consideration for melanoma. The 
purpose of this study was to elucidate the expression pattern of HMB45 and PRAME 
in nevi with the halo phenomenon (NHP).
METHODS: PRAME and HMB45 staining patterns in 20 cases of NHP and 16 cases of 
conventional nevi were evaluated using light microscopy. An HMB45 gradient was 
defined as immunopositivity in only superficial melanocytes. HMB45 aberrant 
expression consisted of superficial and deep immunopositivity.
RESULTS: Aberrant HMB45 expression was observed in 10 of 20 NHP (50%). A 
gradient of HMB45 staining was seen in most conventional nevi, with only one 
showing focal weak expression in the deep dermis (6.3%). All cases of NHP and 
conventional nevi showed essentially negative immunostaining by PRAME.
CONCLUSION: Aberrant HMB45 expression in NHP is not uncommon and may be a 
diagnostic pitfall. Negative PRAME immunostaining may be a reassuring finding to 
help differentiate halo nevus from malignant melanoma.

© 2020 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.13916
PMID: 33184871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2021 Mar 22;80(4):384-386. doi:
10.1093/jnen/nlaa125.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) Expression in Malignant, 
but Not Benign, Peripheral Nerve Sheath Tumors.

Cadwell CR(1), Yuksek GE(1), Hirbe AC(2), Srihari D(2), LeBoit P(3), Dahiya 
S(4), Pekmezci M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology, University of California 
San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(2)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Washington University 
in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri.
(3)Division of Dermatopathology, Departments of Pathology and Dermatology, 
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(4)Division of Neuropathology, Department of Pathology and Immunology, 
Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlaa125
PMID: 33212492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Blood. 2021 May 13;137(19):2585-2597. doi: 10.1182/blood.2020009471.

Clinical effects of administering leukemia-specific donor T cells to patients 
with AML/MDS after allogeneic transplant.

Lulla PD(1), Naik S(1), Vasileiou S(1), Tzannou I(1), Watanabe A(1), Kuvalekar 
M(1), Lulla S(1), Carrum G(1), Ramos CA(1), Kamble R(1), Hill L(1), Randhawa 
J(1)(2), Gottschalk S(1), Krance R(1), Wang T(1), Wu M(1), Robertson C(1), Gee 
AP(1), Chung B(1)(2), Grilley B(1), Brenner MK(1), Heslop HE(1), Vera JF(1), 
Leen AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX; 
and.
(2)Department of Hematology, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX.

Erratum in
    Blood. 2022 Feb 24;139(8):1257.

Comment in
    Blood. 2021 May 13;137(19):2565-2566.

Relapse after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) is the 
leading cause of death in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or 
myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Infusion of unselected donor lymphocytes (DLIs) 
enhances the graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect. However, because the infused 
lymphocytes are not selected for leukemia specificity, the GVL effect is often 
accompanied by life-threatening graft-versus-host disease (GVHD), related to the 
concurrent transfer of alloreactive lymphocytes. Thus, to minimize GVHD and 
maximize GVL, we selectively activated and expanded stem cell donor-derived T 
cells reactive to multiple antigens expressed by AML/MDS cells (PRAME, WT1, 
Survivin, and NY-ESO-1). Products that demonstrated leukemia antigen specificity 
were generated from 29 HCT donors. In contrast to DLIs, leukemia-specific T 
cells (mLSTs) selectively recognized and killed leukemia antigen-pulsed cells, 
with no activity against recipient's normal cells in vitro. We administered 
escalating doses of mLSTs (0.5 to 10 × 107 cells per square meter) to 25 trial 
enrollees, 17 with high risk of relapse and 8 with relapsed disease. Infusions 
were well tolerated with no grade >2 acute or extensive chronic GVHD seen. We 
observed antileukemia effects in vivo that translated into not-yet-reached 
median leukemia-free and overall survival at 1.9 years of follow-up and 
objective responses in the active disease cohort (1 complete response and 1 
partial response). In summary, mLSTs are safe and promising for the prevention 
and treatment of AML/MDS after HCT. This trial is registered at 
www.clinicaltrials.com as #NCT02494167.

© 2021 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.2020009471
PMCID: PMC8120140
PMID: 33270816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Histopathology. 2021 Jun;78(7):1000-1008. doi: 10.1111/his.14312. Epub 2021
Apr  2.

PRAME immunohistochemistry as an adjunct for diagnosis and histological margin 
assessment in lentigo maligna.

Gradecki SE(1), Valdes-Rodriguez R(2), Wick MR(1), Gru AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA.
(2)Departments of Dermatology and Pathology, University of Arkansas, Little 
Rock, AR, USA.

AIMS: Lentigo maligna (LM), the most common type of melanoma in situ, is a 
diagnostically challenging lesion for pathologists due to abundant background 
melanocytic hyperplasia in sun-damaged skin. Currently, no laboratory methods 
reliably distinguish benign from malignant melanocytes. However, preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has shown promise in this regard, and 
could potentially be applied to diagnosis and margin assessment in difficult 
cases of LM.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Ninety-six cases with a diagnosis of LM (n = 77) or no 
residual LM (n = 19) following initial biopsy were identified and stained with 
an antibody directed towards PRAME. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was scored as 
positive or negative, and measurement of histological margins by PRAME was 
performed and compared to the measurement of histological margins using 
conventional methods [haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and/or sex-determining region 
Y-box 10 (SOX10) and/or Melan-A]. Of cases with LM, 93.5% (72 of 77) were PRAME+ 
and 94.7% (18 of 19) of cases with no residual LM were PRAME- . Of the 35 cases 
with no margin involvement by PRAME or conventional assessment, 14 cases (40.0%) 
had no difference in measurement, 17 (48.6%) had a difference of 1 mm or less 
and four (11.4%) differed by between 1 and 3.5 mm. There was a high correlation 
between margin assessment methods (r = 0.97, P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME IHC is a sensitive (93.5%) and specific (94.7%) method for 
diagnosing LM on biopsy and excision, and measurement of histological margins by 
PRAME shows a high correlation with conventional methods for margin assessment. 
Furthermore, the nuclear expression of PRAME makes it a good target for use in 
dual-colour IHC stains.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.14312
PMID: 33280156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Cancers (Basel). 2020 Dec 3;12(12):3612. doi: 10.3390/cancers12123612.

Cancer Testis Antigens and Immunotherapy: Expression of PRAME Is Associated with 
Prognosis in Soft Tissue Sarcoma.

Albertsmeier M(1), Altendorf-Hofmann A(2), Lindner LH(3), Issels RD(3), Kampmann 
E(3), Dürr HR(4), Schubert-Fritschle G(5), Angele MK(1), Kirchner T(6), 
Jungbluth AA(7), Knösel T(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of General, Visceral and Transplantation Surgery, University 
Hospital, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, 81377 
Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of General, Visceral and Vascular Surgery, Friedrich-Schiller 
Universität Jena, Am Klinikum 1, 07743 Jena, Germany.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine III, University Hospital, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, 81377 Munich, 
Germany.
(4)Musculoskeletal Oncology, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Physical 
Medicine and Rehabilitation, University Hospital, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität 
(LMU) Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, 81377 Munich, Germany.
(5)Munich Cancer Registry (MCR) of the Munich Tumour Centre (TZM), Institute for 
Medical Information Processing, Biometry, and Epidemiology (IBE), University 
Hospital, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, 81377 
Munich, Germany.
(6)Institute of Pathology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität (LMU) Munich, 
Thalkirchner Str. 36, 80337 Munich, Germany.
(7)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), New 
York, NY 1275, USA.

(1) Background: PRAME, NY-ESO-1, and SSX2 are cancer testis antigens (CTAs), 
which are expressed in testicular germ cells with re-expression in numerous 
cancer types. Their ability to elicit humoral and cellular immune responses have 
rendered them promising targets for cancer immunotherapy, but they have never 
been studied in a large and well-characterised cohort of soft tissue sarcomas 
(STS). (2) Methods: On a protein level, we examined PRAME, NY-ESO-1, and SSX2 
expression in tumour tissues of 249 high-risk STS using immunohistochemistry. We 
correlated expression levels with clinicopathological parameters including 
tumour-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) counts, grading, and long-term survival. 
(3) Results: Expression of PRAME, NY-ESO-1, and SSX2 was observed in 25 (10%), 
19 (8%), and 11 (4%) of 249 specimens with distinct patterns for histo-subtypes. 
Expression of PRAME was associated with shorter patient survival (p = 0.005) and 
higher grade (G2 vs. G3, p = 0.001), while NY-ESO-1 expression was correlated 
with more favourable survival (p = 0.037) and lower grade (G2 vs. G3, p = 
0.029). Both PRAME and NY-ESO-1 expression were more frequent in STS with low 
TIL counts. In multivariate analysis, high PRAME and low SSX2 expression levels 
as well as metastatic disease and non-radical resections were independent 
predictors of shorter overall survival. (4) Conclusions: CTAs PRAME, NY-ESO-1, 
and SSX2 show distinct expression patterns in different STS subtypes. These 
results demonstrate their prognostic relevance and may guide future 
immunotherapeutic approaches in STS.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers12123612
PMCID: PMC7761656
PMID: 33287125

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


345. Pathol Res Pract. 2021 Jan;217:153214. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2020.153214. Epub
2020  Sep 13.

Biological features of tissue and bone sarcomas investigated using an in vitro 
model of clonal selection.

Avdonkina NA(1), Danilova AB(2), Misyurin VA(3), Prosekina EA(4), Girdyuk DV(5), 
Emelyanova NV(6), Nekhaeva TL(7), Gafton GI(8), Baldueva IA(9).

Author information:
(1)N.N. Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 197758, Russian 
Federation St. Petersburg, Pesochny, Leningradskaya Street 68, Russia. 
Electronic address: nataliaavdonkina@gmail.com.
(2)N.N. Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 197758, Russian 
Federation St. Petersburg, Pesochny, Leningradskaya Street 68, Russia. 
Electronic address: anna_danilova@bk.ru.
(3)N.N. Blokhin National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 115478, Russian 
Federation, Moscow, Kashirskoye Shosse 24, Russia. Electronic address: 
vsevolod.misyurin@gmail.com.
(4)N.N. Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 197758, Russian 
Federation St. Petersburg, Pesochny, Leningradskaya Street 68, Russia. 
Electronic address: elizaveta.prosekina@gmail.com.
(5)N.N. Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 197758, Russian 
Federation St. Petersburg, Pesochny, Leningradskaya Street 68, Russia. 
Electronic address: dm.girduk@mail.ru.
(6)N.N. Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 197758, Russian 
Federation St. Petersburg, Pesochny, Leningradskaya Street 68, Russia. 
Electronic address: emelyana.79@mail.ru.
(7)N.N. Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 197758, Russian 
Federation St. Petersburg, Pesochny, Leningradskaya Street 68, Russia. 
Electronic address: nehaevat151274@mail.ru.
(8)N.N. Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 197758, Russian 
Federation St. Petersburg, Pesochny, Leningradskaya Street 68, Russia. 
Electronic address: doc-tor@mail.ru.
(9)N.N. Petrov National Medical Research Center of Oncology, 197758, Russian 
Federation St. Petersburg, Pesochny, Leningradskaya Street 68, Russia. 
Electronic address: biahome@mail.ru.

The malignancy progression is an evolutionary process in which tumor clones are 
selected and competed for the duration of the disease. Intratumor heterogeneity 
is one of the key problems in the development of treatment methods for cancer 
patients. In this study we obtained metastatic soft tissue and bone sarcomas 
(STBSs) cultures from 54 patients, performed in vitro cloning and randomly 
selected 83 clones. Cloning was successful in 22 cases (40.7%). STBSs cultures 
with a high clonogenic potential (CP) were characterized by greater 
proliferative activity and increased Aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) expression. 
We studied the transcription activity of the following cancer-testis genes 
(CTG): MAGE, NY-ESO-1, PRAME, GAGE, SSX1, HAGE1, PASD1, SCP1, SEMG1, SLLP1 and 
SPANXA1. The SEMG1 expression wasn't registered in any studied case. CTG 
activity wasn't observed in 10 cases out of 52 (19,2%) STBS cultures. We 
observed CTG activation and increased transcription activity in 82 STBSs clones. 
Clustering by the gene profile has revealed three different patterns: 1 st - 
with low expression CTG, 2nd - with co-expression GAGE1, PASD1 and PRAME, 3d - 
with co-expression SLLP1 and GAGE1. The last two clusters included most cloned 
cell lines and their clones. CP of STBSs cell lines was associated with the 
parameters of patients overall survival (OS) at comparable progression-free 
survival (PFS). Among patients with STBSs with the high CP, median OS was 7.6 
months (min 0.7 - max 11.0 months). In the group with the low CP, OS did not 
reach the median value by the end of the five-year observation period. PFS was 
5.6 months (min 0.2 - max 19.2 months) in the first group and 3.2 months (min 
0.3- max 71.3 months) in the second group. Resistance to therapeutic doses of 
chemotherapy drugs was correlated with CP cultures STBSs. We suggest that 
chemotherapy-resistant clones are pre-existing in the tumor rather than being 
formed under the influence of chemotherapy. Highly aggressive metastatic 
sarcomas may be a promising candidate for immunotherapy against cancer-testis 
antigens (CTAs).

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2020.153214
PMID: 33290900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Biomed Res Int. 2020 Dec 10;2020:8828579. doi: 10.1155/2020/8828579.
eCollection  2020.

Clinicopathological and Prognostic Significance of PRAME Overexpression in Human 
Cancer: A Meta-Analysis.

Li J(1), Yin J(1), Zhong J(2), Yang Z(1), Tang A(2), Li S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Urology, Shenzhen Children's Hospital, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong 518026, China.
(2)Department of Science and Education, The Second People's Hospital of 
Shenzhen, The First Affiliated Hospital of Shenzhen University, Shenzhen, 
Guangdong 518035, China.

Numerous studies have demonstrated that preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME) is abnormally expressed in various solid tumours. However, the 
clinicopathological features and prognostic value of the PRAME expression in 
patients with cancer remain unclear. Accordingly, we performed a meta-analysis 
to accurately assess the association of the expression level of PRAME with 
clinicopathological features and cancer prognosis. Relevant study collection was 
performed in PubMed, Web of Science, and Embase until 28 February 2020. A total 
of 14 original studies involving 2,421 patients were included. Our data 
indicated that the PRAME expression was significantly associated with tumour 
stage (OR = 1.99, 95% CI: 1.48-2.67, P < 0.001) and positive lymph node 
metastasis (OR = 3.14, 95% CI: 1.99-4.97, P < 0.001). Pooled results showed that 
overexpression of PRAME is positively correlated with poor disease-free survival 
(HR = 1.60, 95% CI: 1.36-1.88, P < 0.001), progression-free survival (HR = 1.88, 
95% CI: 1.02-3.46, P = 0.042), metastasis-free survival (HR = 1.86, 95% CI: 
1.05-3.31, P = 0.034), and overall survival (HR = 1.75, 95% CI: 1.53-1.99, P < 
0.001). In summary, these data are suggesting that PRAME is tumorigenic and may 
serve as a prognostic biomarker for cancer.

Copyright © 2020 Jiaqiang Li et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2020/8828579
PMCID: PMC7748905
PMID: 33381588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


347. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Jul;48(7):856-862. doi: 10.1111/cup.13958. Epub 2021
Feb 3.

The utility of PRAME staining in identifying malignant transformation of 
melanocytic nevi.

Lohman ME(1), Steen AJ(2), Grekin RC(1), North JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

BACKGROUND: PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) 
immunohistochemical (IHC) staining is used to aid melanoma diagnosis. PRAME 
expression in nevus-associated melanoma (NAM) has not been evaluated.
METHODS: PRAME IHC was applied to cases of NAM; staining for each population of 
melanocytes (benign and malignant) was graded based on the percentage of labeled 
cells. No labeling was graded 0, 1% to 25% labeling was 1+, 26% to 50% was 2+, 
51% to 75% was 3+, and >76% was 4+.
RESULTS: Thirty-six cases were reviewed. Sixty-seven percent (24/36) of 
melanomas were PRAME positive (4+) while no (0/36) nevi showed 4+ positivity. 
Eighty-one percent (29/36) of nevi were completely PRAME negative compared to 
17% (6/36) of melanomas. In 67% of cases (24/36) PRAME differentiated between 
benign and malignant melanocyte populations.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified a high rate (67%) of differential PRAME staining in 
adjacent benign and malignant melanocyte populations in NAM. In PRAME positive 
(4+) melanomas, PRAME differentiates 100% (24/24) of benign and malignant 
melanocyte populations. When 4+ staining is used as the threshold for 
positivity, PRAME staining has a sensitivity of 67% (24/36) and a specificity of 
100% (36/36). These results support PRAME IHC can assist in distinguishing 
melanocyte populations in melanoma arising within nevi.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.13958
PMID: 33433032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Iran J Med Sci. 2021 Jan;46(1):52-60. doi: 10.30476/ijms.2019.82301.1029.

In Silico Design and Evaluation of PRAME+FliCΔD2D3 as a New Breast Cancer 
Vaccine Candidate.

Taheri-Anganeh M(1), Savardashtaki A(1)(2), Vafadar A(1), Movahedpour A(1)(3), 
Shabaninejad Z(2)(4), Maleksabet A(5), Amiri A(6), Ghasemi Y(1)(2)(7), Irajie 
C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Medical Sciences and 
Technologies, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Pharmaceutical Sciences Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Student Research Committee, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(4)Department of Nanobiotechnology, School of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Advanced Technologies in 
Medicine, Mazandaran University of Medical Sciences, Sari, Iran.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(7)Department of Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, School of Pharmacy, Shiraz 
University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The most prevalent cancer in women over the world is breast cancer. 
Immunotherapy is a promising method to effectively treat cancer patients. Among 
various immunotherapy methods, tumor antigens stimulate the immune system to 
eradicate cancer cells. Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is 
mainly overexpressed in breast cancer cells, and has no expression in normal 
tissues. FliCΔD2D3, as truncated flagellin (FliC), is an effective toll-like 
receptor 5 (TLR5) agonist with lower inflammatory responses. The objective of 
the present study was to utilize bioinformatics methods to design a chimeric 
protein against breast cancer.
METHODS: The physicochemical properties, solubility, and secondary structures of 
PRAME+FliCΔD2D3 were predicted using the tools ProtParam, Protein-sol, and GOR 
IV, respectively. The 3D structure of the chimeric protein was built using 
I-TASSER and refined with GalaxyRefine, RAMPAGE, and PROCHECK. ANTIGENpro and 
VaxiJen were used to evaluate protein antigenicity, and allergenicity was 
checked using AlgPred and Allergen FP. Major histocompatibility complex )MHC( 
and cytotoxic T-lymphocytes )CTL( binding peptides were predicted using HLApred 
and CTLpred. Finally, B-cell continuous and discontinuous epitopes were 
predicted using ABCpred and ElliPro, respectively.
RESULTS: The stability and solubility of PRAME+FliCΔD2D3 were analyzed, and its 
secondary and tertiary structures were predicted. The results showed that the 
derived peptides could bind to MHCs and CTLs. The designed chimeric protein 
possessed both linear and conformational epitopes with a high binding affinity 
to B-cell epitopes.
CONCLUSION: PRAME+FliCΔD2D3 is a stable and soluble chimeric protein that can 
stimulate humoral and cellular immunity. The obtained results can be utilized 
for the development of an experimental vaccine against breast cancer.

Copyright: © Iranian Journal of Medical Sciences.

DOI: 10.30476/ijms.2019.82301.1029
PMCID: PMC7812496
PMID: 33487792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Cell Death Differ. 2021 Jun;28(6):1926-1940. doi:
10.1038/s41418-020-00724-5.  Epub 2021 Jan 27.

Tumor-associated antigen Prame targets tumor suppressor p14/ARF for degradation 
as the  receptor protein of CRL2(Prame) complex.

Zhang W(#)(1)(2)(3), Li L(#)(1)(3), Cai L(#)(1), Liang Y(1)(3), Xu J(3), Liu 
Y(4)(5)(6), Zhou L(1), Ding C(7)(8), Zhang Y(4)(5)(6), Zhao H(4)(5)(6), Qin 
J(7)(8), Shao Z(2)(3), Wei W(9), Jia L(10).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Institute, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200032, China.
(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Key Laboratory of Breast Cancer in Shanghai, 
Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 200032, China.
(3)Cancer Institute, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 200032, 
China.
(4)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Huadong Hospital, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200040, China.
(5)Shanghai Key Laboratory of Clinical Geriatric Medicine, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200040, China.
(6)Research Center on Aging and Medicine, Fudan University, Shanghai, 2000402, 
China.
(7)State Key Laboratory of Proteomics, Beijing Proteome Research Center, Beijing 
Institute of Radiation Medicine, Beijing, 102206, China.
(8)National Center for Protein Sciences, The PHOENIX Center, Beijing, 102206, 
China.
(9)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, 02115, MA, USA.
(10)Cancer Institute, Longhua Hospital, Shanghai University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Shanghai, 200032, China. ljjia@shutcm.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Protein Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (Prame), a tumor-associated 
antigen, has been found to frequently overexpress in various cancers, which 
indicates advanced cancer stages and poor clinical prognosis. Moreover, previous 
reports noted that Prame functions as a substrate recognizing receptor protein 
of Cullin RING E3 ligases (CRLs) to mediate potential substrates degradation 
through Ubiquitin Proteasome System (UPS). However, none of the Prame specific 
substrate has been identified so far. In this study, proteomic analysis of 
RBX1-interacting proteins revealed p14/ARF, a well-known tumor suppressor, as a 
novel ubiquitin target of RBX1. Subsequently, immunoprecipitation and in vivo 
ubiquitination assay determined Cullin2-RBX1-Transcription Elongation Factor B 
Subunit 2 (EloB) assembled CRL2 E3 ligase complex to regulate the ubiquitination 
and subsequent degradation of p14/ARF. Finally, through siRNA screening, Prame 
was identified as the specific receptor protein responsible for recognizing 
p14/ARF to be degraded. Additionally, via bioinformatics analysis of TCGA 
database and clinical samples, Prame was determined to overexpress in tumor 
tissues vs. paired adjacent tissues and associated with poor prognosis of cancer 
patients. As such, downregulation of Prame expression significantly restrained 
cancer cell growth by inducing G2/M phase cell cycle arrest, which could be 
rescued by simultaneously knocking down of p14/ARF. Altogether, targeting 
overexpressed Prame in cancer cells inactivated RBX1-Cullin2-EloB-Prame E3 
ligase (CRL2Prame) and halted p14/ARF degradation to restrain tumor growth by 
inducing G2/M phase cell cycle arrest.

DOI: 10.1038/s41418-020-00724-5
PMCID: PMC8184998
PMID: 33504946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


350. J Clin Oncol. 2021 May 1;39(13):1415-1425. doi: 10.1200/JCO.20.02224. Epub
2021  Jan 28.

T-Cell Therapy for Lymphoma Using Nonengineered Multiantigen-Targeted T Cells Is 
Safe and Produces Durable Clinical Effects.

Vasileiou S(1), Lulla PD(1), Tzannou I(1), Watanabe A(1), Kuvalekar M(1), 
Callejas WL(1), Bilgi M(1), Wang T(1), Wu MJ(1), Kamble R(1), Ramos CA(1), Rouce 
RH(1), Zeng Z(1), Gee AP(1), Grilley BJ(1), Vera JF(1), Bollard CM(1), Brenner 
MK(1), Heslop HE(1), Rooney CM(1), Leen AM(1), Carrum G(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas 
Children's Hospital and Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX.

Erratum in
    J Clin Oncol. 2021 Jun 20;39(18):2053.
    J Clin Oncol. 2021 Dec 10;39(35):4000.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2021 May 1;39(13):1479-1482.

PURPOSE: Patients with relapsed lymphomas often fail salvage therapies including 
high-dose chemotherapy and mono-antigen-specific T-cell therapies, highlighting 
the need for nontoxic, novel treatments. To that end, we clinically tested an 
autologous T-cell product that targets multiple tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) 
expressed by lymphomas with the intent of treating disease and preventing immune 
escape.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We expanded polyclonal T cells reactive to five TAAs: 
PRAME, SSX2, MAGEA4, SURVIVIN, and NY-ESO-1. Products were administered to 32 
patients with Hodgkin lymphomas (n = 14) or non-Hodgkin lymphomas (n = 18) in a 
two-part phase I clinical trial, where the objective of the first phase was to 
establish the safety of targeting all five TAAs (fixed dose, 0.5 × 107 cells/m2) 
simultaneously and the second stage was to establish the maximum tolerated dose. 
Patients had received a median of three prior lines of therapy and either were 
at high risk for relapse (adjuvant arm, n = 17) or had chemorefractory disease 
(n = 15) at enrollment.
RESULTS: Infusions were safe with no dose-limiting toxicities observed in either 
the antigen- or dose-escalation phases. Although the maximum tolerated dose was 
not reached, the maximum tested dose at which efficacy was observed (two 
infusions, 2 × 107 cells/m2) was determined as the recommended phase II dose. Of 
the patients with chemorefractory lymphomas, two (of seven) with Hodgkin 
lymphomas and four (of eight) with non-Hodgkin lymphomas achieved durable 
complete remissions (> 3 years).
CONCLUSION: T cells targeting five TAAs and administered at doses of up to two 
infusions of 2 × 107 cells/m2 are well-tolerated by patients with lymphoma both 
as adjuvant and to treat chemorefractory lymphoma. Preliminary indicators of 
antilymphoma activity were seen in the chemorefractory cohort across both 
antigen- and dose-escalation phases.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.20.02224
PMCID: PMC8274795
PMID: 33507803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Spyridoula Vasileiou Consulting or Advisory 
Role: AlloVir Premal Lulla Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Johnson & 
Johnson (I) Ifigeneia Tzannou Stock and Other Ownership Interests: AlloVir Ayumi 
Watanabe Consulting or Advisory Role: AlloVir Manik Kuvalekar Consulting or 
Advisory Role: AlloVir Mrinalini Bilgi Employment: Carsgen Therapeutics Ltd 
Carlos Ramos Consulting or Advisory Role: Novartis Research Funding: Tessa 
Therapeutics, Kuur Therapeutics (Inst) Rayne Rouce Honoraria: Novartis 
Pharmaceuticals UK Ltd, Kite/Gilead Research Funding: Tessa Therapeutics (Inst) 
Bambi Grilley Employment: South Texas Nuclear Pharmacy (I), Q B Regulatory 
Consulting Leadership: AlloVir Stock and Other Ownership Interests: AlloVir 
Travel, Accommodations, Expenses: Tessa Therapeutics Juan Vera Employment: 
Marker Therapeutics Leadership: Marker Therapeutics, AlloVir Stock and Other 
Ownership Interests: Marker Therapeutics, AlloVir Consulting or Advisory Role: 
Marker Therapeutics, AlloVir Research Funding: Marker Therapeutics Patents, 
Royalties, Other Intellectual Property: I am an inventor in patents license to 
Marker Therapeutics Inc and Allovir. Marker Therapeutics Inc is currently 
advancing a T cell therapy in AML while Allovir is developing T cell therapies 
for viral infections. Travel, Accommodations, Expenses: Marker Therapeutics, 
AlloVir Catherine Bollard Leadership: Mana Therapeutics, Cabaletta Bio, 
Catamaran Bio Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Mana Therapeutics, Neximmune, 
Torque, Caballeta Bio, Catamaran Bio Consulting or Advisory Role: Torque, 
NexImmune, Cellectis, Cabaletta Bio Patents, Royalties, Other Intellectual 
Property: TAA-specific T cells and HIV specific T cells Open Payments Link 
https://openpaymentsdata.cms.gov/physician/381202 Malcolm Brenner Stock and 
Other Ownership Interests: Bluebird Bio, Tessa Therapeutics, Maker Therapeutics, 
AlloVir, Walking Fish, Allogene Therapeutics, Memgen, KURR, Bellicum 
Pharmaceuticals, TScan Therapeutics, Poseida Therapeutics, Abintus Honoraria: 
Merck (I) Consulting or Advisory Role: Tessa Therapeutics, Memgen, Torque, 
NantWorks, Poseida Therapeutics, Cell Medica (I), Formula Pharmaceuticals, 
Walking Fish Therapeutics, TScan Therapeutics, Alimera Sciences, Maker 
Therapeutics, Turnstone Bio Research Funding: Cell Medica (I) Patents, 
Royalties, Other Intellectual Property: Not applicable because it's not related. 
Travel, Accommodations, Expenses: Merck (I), Tessa Therapeutics, Bluebird Bio, 
Torque Helen Heslop Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Marker Therapeutics, 
AlloVir Consulting or Advisory Role: Gilead Sciences, Novartis, Kiadis Pharma, 
Tessa Therapeutics, Marker Therapeutics, PACT Pharma, Mesoblast Research 
Funding: Cell Medica (Inst), Tessa Therapeutics (Inst) Cliona Rooney Leadership: 
Tessa Therapeutics (I) Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Marker Therapeutics, 
Marker Therapeutics (I), Bluebird Bio (I), Allovir, Allovir (I) Consulting or 
Advisory Role: Tessa Therapeutics, Tessa Therapeutics (I), Alimera Sciences (I), 
Memgen (I), TScan Therapeutics (I) Research Funding: Tessa Therapeutics Patents, 
Royalties, Other Intellectual Property: Takeda, Allogene, Bellicum Travel, 
Accommodations, Expenses: Tessa Therapeutics, Tessa Therapeutics (I) Ann Leen 
Stock and Other Ownership Interests: Marker Therapeutics, Allovir Consulting or 
Advisory Role: Marker Therapeutics, Allovir Patents, Royalties, Other 
Intellectual Property: I have patents and pending patents in the field of cell 
therapy and I have received royalty payments. Travel, Accommodations, Expenses: 
Allovir No other potential conflicts of interest were reported.


351. Hum Pathol. 2021 Jun;112:35-47. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2021.02.001. Epub
2021  Feb 24.

Cross-reactivity of NRASQ61R antibody in a subset of Spitz nevi with 11p gain: a 
potential confounding factor in the era of pathway-based diagnostic approach.

Parra O(1), Lefferts JA(2), Tafe LJ(2), Gru AA(3), Linos K(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical 
Center, Lebanon, NH, 03766, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical 
Center, Lebanon, NH, 03766, USA; Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, 
Hanover, NH, 03755, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, 22903, 
USA.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical 
Center, Lebanon, NH, 03766, USA; Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, 
Hanover, NH, 03755, USA. Electronic address: Konstantinos.Linos@Hitchcock.org.

The most recent World Health Organization classification for skin tumors (2018) 
categorizes melanomas and their precursor lesions, benign or intermediate, into 
nine pathways based not only on their clinical and histomorphologic 
characteristics but also on their molecular profile and genetic fingerprint. In 
an index case of a partially sampled atypical spitzoid lesion, which proved to 
be an 11p-amplified Spitz nevus with HRASQ61R mutation, we observed 
cross-reactivity with the NRASQ61R antibody (clone SP174). Overall, we assessed 
the status of HRAS and NRAS genes and their immunoreaction to NRASQ61R antibody 
in 16 cases of 11p-amplified Spitz nevi/atypical Spitz tumors. We also assessed 
the immunoexpression of NRASQ61R antibody in various malignancies with proven 
BRAFV600E, NRASQ61R, L or K, KRASQ61R and HRASQ61R, and HRASQ61R mutations and 
ALK+ Spitz lesions. Finally, we assessed the expression of PReferentially 
expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) immunohistochemistry in our 11p Spitz 
cohort. Three of 16 cases (3/16) harbored the HRASQ61R mutation and exhibited 
diffuse immunoreaction with the NRASQ61R antibody. All the cases in our cohort 
were negative for the NRASQ61R mutation. All NRASQ61R-, KRASQ61R-, and 
HRASQ61R-mutated neoplasms were positive for the antibody, further supporting 
the cross-reactivity between the RAS proteins. All the cases of our cohort were 
essentially negative for PRAME immunohistochemistry. In the era of pathway-based 
approach in the diagnosis of melanocytic neoplasms, the cross-reactivity between 
the NRASQ61R- and HRASQ61R-mutated proteins can lead to a diagnostic pitfall in 
the assessment of lesions with spitzoid characteristics.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2021.02.001
PMID: 33636207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Acta Neuropathol. 2021 Jun;141(6):929-944. doi: 10.1007/s00401-021-02283-6.
Epub  2021 Mar 1.

Molecular characterization of DICER1-mutated pituitary blastoma.

Nadaf J(#)(1)(2)(3), de Kock L(#)(1)(2)(4), Chong AS(1)(2), Korbonits M(5), 
Thorner P(6), Benlimame N(7), Fu L(8), Peet A(9)(10), Warner J(11), Ploner 
O(12), Shuangshoti S(13), Albrecht S(8), Hamel N(14), Priest JR(15), Rivera 
B(16)(17), Ragoussis J(2)(3), Foulkes WD(18)(19)(20)(21).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, The Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General 
Hospital, 3755 Cote St. Catherine Road, Montreal, QC, H3T 1E2, Canada.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)McGill University Genome Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Institute, Ottawa, ON, 
Canada.
(5)Centre for Endocrinology, William Harvey Research Institute, Barts and the 
London School of Medicine, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.
(6)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada.
(7)Research Pathology Facility, Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(8)Department of Pathology, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.
(9)Birmingham Children's NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.
(10)Institute of Cancer and Genomic Sciences, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, UK.
(11)Department of Child Health, University Hospital of Wales, Heath Park, 
Cardiff, UK.
(12)Diakonie-Klinikum, Stuttgart, Germany.
(13)Department of Pathology and Chulalongkorn GenePRO Center, Faculty of 
Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand.
(14)Cancer Research Program, Research Institute of the McGill University Health 
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(15), Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(16)Program in Molecular Mechanisms and Experimental Therapy in Oncology 
(Oncobell), IDIBELL, Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.
(17)Gerald Bronfman Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.
(18)Department of Medical Genetics, The Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General 
Hospital, 3755 Cote St. Catherine Road, Montreal, QC, H3T 1E2, Canada. 
william.foulkes@mcgill.ca.
(19)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada. 
william.foulkes@mcgill.ca.
(20)Cancer Research Program, Research Institute of the McGill University Health 
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada. william.foulkes@mcgill.ca.
(21)Gerald Bronfman Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, Canada. 
william.foulkes@mcgill.ca.
(#)Contributed equally

Pituitary blastoma (PitB) has recently been identified as a rare and potentially 
lethal pediatric intracranial tumor. All cases that have been studied 
molecularly possess at least one DICER1 pathogenic variant. Here, we 
characterized nine pituitary samples, including three fresh frozen PitBs, three 
normal fetal pituitary glands and three normal postnatal pituitary glands using 
small-RNA-Seq, RNA-Seq, methylation profiling, whole genome sequencing and 
Nanostring® miRNA analyses; an extended series of 21 pituitary samples was used 
for validation purposes. These analyses demonstrated that DICER1 RNase IIIb 
hotspot mutations in PitBs induced improper processing of miRNA precursors, 
resulting in aberrant 5p-derived miRNA products and a skewed distribution of 
miRNAs favoring mature 3p over 5p miRNAs. This led to dysregulation of hundreds 
of 5p and 3p miRNAs and concomitant dysregulation of numerous mRNA targets. Gene 
expression analysis revealed PRAME as the most significantly upregulated gene 
(500-fold increase). PRAME is a member of the Retinoic Acid Receptor (RAR) 
signaling pathway and in PitBs, the RAR, WNT and NOTCH pathways are 
dysregulated. Cancer Hallmarks analysis showed that PI3K pathway is activated in 
the tumors. Whole genome sequencing demonstrated a quiet genome with very few 
somatic alterations. The comparison of methylation profiles to publicly 
available data from ~ 3000 other central nervous system tumors revealed that 
PitBs have a distinct methylation profile compared to all other tumors, 
including pituitary adenomas. In conclusion, this comprehensive characterization 
of DICER1-related PitB revealed key molecular underpinnings of PitB and 
identified pathways that could potentially be exploited in the treatment of this 
tumor.

DOI: 10.1007/s00401-021-02283-6
PMID: 33644822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Sep;48(9):1115-1123. doi: 10.1111/cup.14000. Epub 2021
Mar  15.

The utility of PRAME immunohistochemistry in the evaluation of challenging 
melanocytic tumors.

Alomari AK(1)(2), Tharp AW(1), Umphress B(1), Kowal RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Indiana University, School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Indiana University, School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

BACKGROUND: PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma) 
immunohistochemistry has demonstrated high specificity for unequivocal 
melanomas; however, its utility in ambiguous melanocytic neoplasms has yet to be 
fully elucidated.
METHODS: Cases of challenging melanocytic neoplasms were subclassified into one 
of three categories: challenging, favor benign (FB), challenging, cannot be 
subclassified (CCS), or challenging, favor malignant (FM). Using a previously 
published system, whereby cases with diffuse staining (>75%) were considered 
positive, scoring of PRAME was performed. Additionally, tumors with hotspot 
staining were also considered positive.
RESULTS: Sixteen out of 85 tumors showed positive staining representing 5% of FB 
tumors, 24% of CCS tumors, and 47% of FM. In FB and CCS tumors, positive 
staining was mainly encountered in atypical intraepidermal melanocytic 
proliferations and spitzoid neoplasms. The specificity of positive PRAME 
staining was 95% and its concordance with the final diagnostic interpretation 
was 75%.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME positivity is more common in neoplasms favored to be 
malignant by histopathologic evaluation. Its clinical utility may include early 
diagnosis of incipient melanoma in situ. Rarely, benign melanocytic neoplasms 
could show diffuse expression of PRAME, and additional studies are needed to 
determine optimal utilization. Lastly, hotspot staining may increase its 
sensitivity without much compromise in specificity.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14000
PMID: 33660310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Sep;48(9):1150-1155. doi: 10.1111/cup.14012. Epub 2021
Mar  28.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma expression in nonmelanoma skin 
cancers and melanocytes in surrounding skin.

Elsensohn A(1), Hanson J(2), Ferringer T(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California San Diego, San Diego, 
California, USA.
(2)Division of Dermatology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Geisinger Medical Center, Danville, Pennsylvania, 
USA.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Geisinger Medical Center, Danville, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND: Immunohistochemistry for preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME) has been studied in melanocytic lesions but not nonmelanoma 
skin cancers (NMSCs). This study evaluated PRAME expression in NMSCs and 
dermoepidermal junction (DEJ) melanocytes in the surrounding skin.
METHODS: Ninety-nine NMSCs were studied: 23 Merkel cell carcinomas (MCCs), 25 
well to poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs), 14 basal cell 
carcinomas (BCCs), five basosquamous carcinomas, four sebaceous carcinomas, ten 
atypical fibroxanthomas, 11 dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans, and seven 
leiomyosarcomas. Staining quality was considered low or high intensity. Staining 
quantity was reported as negative 0%, 1% to 24%, 25% to 50%, and >50%. DEJ 
melanocyte PRAME expression was recorded.
RESULTS: Forty-eight percent of NMSCs showed PRAME expression, mostly low 
intensity in fewer than 25% of cells. High-intensity expression was noted in one 
poorly differentiated SCC, six BCCs, and seven MCCs. Only MCCs showed expression 
in greater than 25% of tumor cells. Focal DEJ melanocytes expressed 
high-intensity PRAME in 18% of cases, most commonly SCCs (11/23).
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME is negative or expressed with low intensity in a small 
percentage of NMSCs, with the exception of some MCC showing high-intensity and 
diffuse staining. Focal DEJ melanocytes showed high-intensity PRAME reactivity 
in the skin surrounding some NMSCs.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14012
PMID: 33719089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. J Invest Dermatol. 2021 Sep;141(9):2303-2305. doi:
10.1016/j.jid.2021.03.005.  Epub 2021 Mar 17.

Real-World Application of a Noninvasive Two-Gene Expression Test for Melanoma 
Diagnosis.

Marchetti MA(1), Nanda JK(2), Mancebo SE(3), Dusza SW(2).

Author information:
(1)Dermatology Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, USA. Electronic address: marchetm@mskcc.org.
(2)Dermatology Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, New York, USA.

Comment in
    J Invest Dermatol. 2022 Jan;142(1):232-234.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jid.2021.03.005
PMCID: PMC8384641
PMID: 33744297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: none reported Conflict of 
interest statement: none declared


356. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Mar 20;22(6):3166. doi: 10.3390/ijms22063166.

Development of a New Highly Selective Monoclonal Antibody against Preferentially 
Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) and Identification of the Target Epitope 
by Bio-Layer Interferometry.

Sivaccumar JP(1), Leonardi A(2), Iaccarino E(1), Corvino G(1), Sanguigno L(2), 
Chambery A(3), Russo R(3), Valletta M(3), Latino D(1), Capasso D(4), Doti N(1), 
Ruvo M(1), Sandomenico A(1).

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Biostrutture e Bioimmagini, CNR, 80134 Napoli, Italy.
(2)Dipartimento di Medicina Molecolare e Biotecnologie Mediche, Università degli 
Studi di Napoli Federico II, 80142 Napoli, Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Scienze e Tecnologie Ambientali, Biologiche e Farmaceutiche 
(DISTABIF), Università L. Vanvitelli, 80100 Caserta, Italy.
(4)Centro di Servizio di Ateneo per le Scienze e Tecnologie per la Vita 
(CESTEV), Università di Napoli Federico II, 80145 Napoli, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against cancer biomarkers are key 
reagents in diagnosis and therapy. One such relevant biomarker is a 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) that is selectively 
expressed in many tumors. Knowing mAb's epitope is of utmost importance for 
understanding the potential activity and therapeutic prospective of the 
reagents.
METHODS: We generated a mAb against PRAME immunizing mice with PRAME fragment 
161-415; the affinity of the antibody for the protein was evaluated by ELISA and 
SPR, and its ability to detect the protein in cells was probed by 
cytofluorimetry and Western blotting experiments. The antibody epitope was 
identified immobilizing the mAb on bio-layer interferometry (BLI) sensor chip, 
capturing protein fragments obtained following trypsin digestion and performing 
mass spectrometry analyses.
RESULTS: A mAb against PRAME with an affinity of 35 pM was obtained and 
characterized. Its epitope on PRAME was localized on residues 202-212, taking 
advantage of the low volumes and lack of fluidics underlying the BLI settings.
CONCLUSIONS: The new anti-PRAME mAb recognizes the folded protein on the surface 
of cell membranes suggesting that the antibody's epitope is well exposed. BLI 
sensor chips can be used to identify antibody epitopes.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms22063166
PMCID: PMC8003813
PMID: 33804612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


357. Cytotherapy. 2021 Aug;23(8):694-703. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2021.03.001. Epub
2021  Apr 5.

Identification of novel HLA-restricted preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma peptides to facilitate off-the-shelf tumor-associated antigen-specific 
T-cell therapies.

Stanojevic M(1), Hont AB(1), Geiger A(1), O'Brien S(1), Ulrey R(1), Grant M(1), 
Datar A(1), Lee PH(1), Lang H(1), Cruz CRY(2), Hanley PJ(3), Barrett AJ(4), 
Keller MD(5), Bollard CM(6).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cancer and Immunology Research, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC, USA.
(2)Center for Cancer and Immunology Research, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC, USA; GW Cancer Center, George Washington University, Washington, 
DC, USA.
(3)Center for Cancer and Immunology Research, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC, USA; GW Cancer Center, George Washington University, Washington, 
DC, USA; Division of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Children's National 
Hospital, Washington, DC, USA.
(4)GW Cancer Center, George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA.
(5)Center for Cancer and Immunology Research, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC, USA; Division of Allergy and Immunology, Children's National 
Hospital, Washington, DC, USA.
(6)Center for Cancer and Immunology Research, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC, USA; GW Cancer Center, George Washington University, Washington, 
DC, USA; Division of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Children's National 
Hospital, Washington, DC, USA. Electronic address: 
cbollard@childrensnational.org.

BACKGROUND AIMS: Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a 
cancer/testis antigen that is overexpressed in many human malignancies and 
poorly expressed or absent in healthy tissues, making it a good target for 
anti-cancer immunotherapy. Development of an effective off-the-shelf adoptive 
T-cell therapy for patients with relapsed or refractory solid tumors and 
hematological malignancies expressing PRAME antigen requires the identification 
of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II PRAME antigens 
recognized by the tumor-associated antigen (TAA) T-cell product. The authors 
therefore set out to extend the repertoire of HLA-restricted PRAME peptide 
epitopes beyond the few already characterized.
METHODS: Peptide libraries of 125 overlapping 15-mer peptides spanning the 
entire PRAME protein sequence were used to identify HLA class I- and 
II-restricted epitopes. The authors also determined the HLA restriction of the 
identified epitopes.
RESULTS: PRAME-specific T-cell products were successfully generated from 
peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 12 healthy donors. Ex vivo-expanded T 
cells were polyclonal, consisting of both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, which elicited 
anti-tumor activity in vitro. Nine MHC class I-restricted PRAME epitopes were 
identified (seven novel and two previously described). The authors also 
characterized 16 individual 15-mer peptide sequences confirmed as CD4-restricted 
epitopes.
CONCLUSIONS: TAA T cells derived from healthy donors recognize a broad range of 
CD4+ and CD8+ HLA-restricted PRAME epitopes, which could be used to select 
suitable donors for generating off-the-shelf TAA-specific T cells.

Copyright © 2021 International Society for Cell & Gene Therapy. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2021.03.001
PMCID: PMC8316284
PMID: 33832817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest CMB is on the 
advisory board of Cellectis and the scientific advisory boards of Catamaran Bio 
and Mana Therapeutics, with stock and/or ownership. CMB is also on the board of 
directors of Cabaletta Bio, with stock options, and has stock in Neximmune and 
Torque Therapeutics. PJH and CRYC are co-founders of Mana Therapeutics, and PJH 
is on the board of directors of Mana Therapeutics. PJH is also on the scientific 
advisory board of Cellevolve. MDK is on the scientific advisory panel of Gilead 
Sciences. CMB, CRYC, PJH and MS have filed a patent application based on the 
findings in this article.


358. Biol Reprod. 2021 Aug 3;105(2):290-304. doi: 10.1093/biolre/ioab074.

The PRAME family of cancer testis antigens is essential for germline development 
and gametogenesis†.

Kern CH(1), Yang M(1), Liu WS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Center for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA, USA.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) belongs to a group of 
cancer/testis antigens that are predominately expressed in the testis and a 
variety of tumors, and are involved in immunity and reproduction. Much of the 
attention on PRAME has centered on cancer biology as PRAME is a prognostic 
biomarker for a wide range of cancers and a potential immunotherapeutic target. 
Less information is available about the PRAME family's function (s) during 
gametogenesis and in the overall reproduction process. Here, we review the 
current knowledge of the PRAME gene family and its function in germline 
development and gametogenesis. Members of the PRAME family are leucine rich 
repeat proteins, localized in nucleus and cytoplasm, with multifaceted roles in 
germ cells. As transcriptional regulators, the PRAME family proteins are 
involved in germline development, particularly in the maintenance of embryonic 
stem cell pluripotency, development of primordial germ cells, and 
differentiation/proliferation of spermatogenic and oogenic cells. The PRAME 
family proteins are also enriched in cytoplasmic organelles, such as rough 
endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi vesicle, germinal granules, centrioles, and play a 
role in the formation of the acrosome and sperm tail during spermiogenesis. The 
PRAME gene family remains transcriptionally active in the germline throughout 
the entire life cycle and is essential for gametogenesis, with some members 
specific to either male or female germ cells, while others are involved in both 
male and female gametogenesis. A potential molecular mechanism that underlies 
the function of PRAME, and is shared by gametogenesis and oncogenesis is also 
discussed.

© The Author(s) 2021. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Society 
for the Study of Reproduction. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/biolre/ioab074
PMID: 33880503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Int J Surg Pathol. 2021 Dec;29(8):826-835. doi: 10.1177/10668969211012085.
Epub  2021 Apr 23.

Immunohistochemical Detection of Cancer-Testis Antigen PRAME.

Lezcano C(1), Müller AM(2), Frosina D(1), Hernandez E(1), Geronimo JA(1), Busam 
KJ(1), Jungbluth AA(1).

Author information:
(1)5803Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, USA.
(2)27182University Hospital of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Cancer-testis (CT) antigens were identified by their ability to elicit T- or 
B-cell immune responses in the autologous host. They are typically expressed in 
a wide variety of neoplasms and in normal adult tissues are restricted to 
testicular germ cells. PReferentially expressed Antigen of Melanoma (PRAME) is a 
member of the family of nonclassical CT antigens being expressed in a few other 
normal tissues besides testis. Interestingly, knowledge about the protein 
expression of many CT antigens is still incomplete due to the limited 
availability of reagents for their immunohistochemical detection. Here, we 
tested several commercially available serological reagents and identified a 
monoclonal antibody suitable for the immunohistochemical detection of PRAME in 
formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded specimens. We also tested a wide array of 
normal and neoplastic tissues. PRAME protein expression in normal tissues is 
congruent with original molecular data being present in the testis, and at low 
levels in the endometrium, adrenal cortex, and adult as well as fetal ovary. In 
tumors, there is diffuse PRAME immunoreactivity in most metastatic melanomas, 
myxoid liposarcomas, and synovial sarcomas. Other neoplasms such as seminomas 
and carcinomas of various origins including endometrial, serous ovarian, mammary 
ductal, lung, and renal showed an intermediate proportion of cases and variable 
extent of tumor cells positive for PRAME protein expression. As seen with other 
CT antigens, hepatocellular and colorectal carcinoma, Leydig cell tumors, 
mesothelioma, and leiomyosarcoma are poor expressers of PRAME.

DOI: 10.1177/10668969211012085
PMID: 33890816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J Dairy Sci. 2021 Jul;104(7):8050-8061. doi: 10.3168/jds.2020-19879. Epub
2021  Apr 23.

Genome-wide association study between copy number variants and hoof health 
traits in Holstein dairy cattle.

Butty AM(1), Chud TCS(1), Cardoso DF(1), Lopes LSF(1), Miglior F(1), Schenkel 
FS(1), Cánovas A(1), Häfliger IM(2), Drögemüller C(2), Stothard P(3), Malchiodi 
F(4), Baes CF(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Biosciences, Centre for Genetic Improvement of 
Livestock, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada.
(2)Vetsuisse Faculty, Institute of Genetics, University of Bern, Bern 3012, 
Switzerland.
(3)Department of Agricultural, Food and Nutritional Science, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton T6G 2R3, Canada.
(4)Department of Animal Biosciences, Centre for Genetic Improvement of 
Livestock, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada; The Semex 
Alliance, Guelph, Ontario N1H 6J2, Canada.
(5)Department of Animal Biosciences, Centre for Genetic Improvement of 
Livestock, University of Guelph, Guelph, Ontario N1G 2W1, Canada; Vetsuisse 
Faculty, Institute of Genetics, University of Bern, Bern 3012, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: cbaes@uoguelph.ca.

Genome-wide association studies based on SNP have been completed for multiple 
traits in dairy cattle; however, copy number variants (CNV) could add genomic 
information that has yet to be harnessed. The objectives of this study were to 
identify CNV in genotyped Holstein animals and assess their association with 
hoof health traits using deregressed estimated breeding values as 
pseudophenotypes. A total of 23,256 CNV comprising 1,645 genomic regions were 
identified in 5,845 animals. Fourteen genomic regions harboring structural 
variations, including 9 deletions and 5 duplications, were associated with at 
least 1 of the studied hoof health traits. This group of traits included digital 
dermatitis, interdigital dermatitis, heel horn erosion, sole ulcer, white line 
lesion, sole hemorrhage, and interdigital hyperplasia; no regions were 
associated with toe ulcer. Twenty candidate genes overlapped with the regions 
associated with these traits including SCART1, NRXN2, KIF26A, GPHN, and OR7A17. 
In this study, an effect on infectious hoof lesions could be attributed to the 
PRAME (Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma) gene. Almost all genes 
detected in association with noninfectious hoof lesions could be linked to known 
metabolic disorders. The knowledge obtained considering information of 
associated CNV to the traits of interest in this study could improve the 
accuracy of estimated breeding values. This may further increase the genetic 
gain for these traits in the Canadian Holstein population, thus reducing the 
involuntary animal losses due to lameness.

The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. and Fass Inc. on behalf of the American 
Dairy Science Association®. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC-ND 
license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/4.0/).

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2020-19879
PMID: 33896633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Am J Dermatopathol. 2021 Dec 1;43(12):913-920. doi: 
10.1097/DAD.0000000000001951.

Correlation of FISH and PRAME Immunohistochemistry in Ambiguous Superficial 
Cutaneous Melanocytic Proliferations.

Harvey NT(1)(2), Peverall J(3), Acott N(1), Mesbah Ardakani N(1)(4), Leecy 
TN(1), Iacobelli J(1), McCallum D(1), Van Vliet C(1), Wood BA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomical Pathology, PathWest Laboratory Medicine, Perth, 
Australia.
(2)Division of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Medical School, University of 
Western, Perth, Australia.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Genomics, PathWest Laboratory Medicine, Perth, WA, 
Australia; and.
(4)College of Science, Health, Engineering and Education, Murdoch University, 
Perth, WA, Australia.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a tumor-associated 
repressor of retinoic acid signaling which is expressed in melanoma and has 
emerged as a potential biomarker for malignant behavior in melanocytic 
neoplasms. Although ancillary molecular techniques such as fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) are established techniques in the diagnosis of problematic 
cutaneous melanocytic proliferations, they are expensive, time-consuming, and 
require appropriate infrastructure, which places them out of reach of some 
laboratories. The advent of readily available commercial antibodies to PRAME has 
the potential to provide a more accessible alternative. The aim of this study 
was to determine whether immunohistochemistry for PRAME could serve as a 
surrogate for FISH analysis in a subgroup of challenging superficial melanocytic 
proliferations. Cases which had previously been submitted for FISH analysis were 
stained for PRAME and interpreted by a panel of at least 3 dermatopathologists 
is a blinded fashion. Of a study set of 55 cases, 42 (76%) showed a pattern of 
PRAME immunostaining which was concordant with the cytogenetic interpretation, 
with an unweighted kappa of 0.42 (representing mild-to-moderate agreement). 
Thus, although there was a correlation between positive immunohistochemistry for 
PRAME and abnormal findings on FISH analysis, in our view, the concordance was 
not sufficient to enable PRAME immunohistochemistry to act as a surrogate for 
FISH testing. Our findings reiterate the principle that interpretation of 
problematic superficial melanocytic proliferations requires a synthesis of all 
the available data, including clinical scenario, morphological features, 
immunohistochemistry, and ancillary molecular investigations.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000001951
PMID: 33899766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


362. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Oct;48(10):1252-1261. doi: 10.1111/cup.14043. Epub 2021
May  17.

Comparison of adipophilin and recently introduced PReferentially expressed 
Antigen in MElanoma immunohistochemistry in the assessment of sebaceous 
neoplasms: A pilot study.

Donnell SA(1), LeBlanc RE(1)(2), Yan S(1)(2), Parra O(1), Momtahen S(1)(2), 
Sriharan A(1)(2), Linos K(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical 
Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.
(2)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA.

Comment in
    J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Oct;48(10):1324-1327.

BACKGROUND: We and others have noticed consistent staining of sebaceous glands 
with PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME). We aimed to determine 
whether PRAME was as sensitive, specific, and interpretable as adipophilin for 
distinguishing sebaceous neoplasms (SNs) from other neoplasms.
METHODS: Twenty SNs and 32 control cases were stained for PRAME and adipophilin. 
Extent of staining was scored as follows: 0, no staining; 1, <5% positivity; 2, 
5% to 50% positivity; and 3, >50% positivity. Intensity was scored as negative, 
weak, moderate, or strong. A composite score was determined by adding the scores 
for extent and intensity.
RESULTS: PRAME had positive composite scores in all 20 SNs in the more 
differentiated areas, whereas adipophilin had positive composite scores in 19/20 
cases. PRAME showed positivity in the basaloid cells in 15/16 cases, whereas 
adipophilin was positive in 14. Among controls, PRAME and adipophilin had 
positive composite scores in 3/32 cases and 6/32 cases, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME and adipophilin are comparable in terms of distribution and 
intensity for staining sebocytes. In the basaloid cells, PRAME expression is 
often more diffuse and easier to detect than adipophilin. In comparing the SNs 
to the controls, PRAME was more sensitive and more specific than adipophilin. 
PRAME could be used as an additional marker of sebaceous differentiation in 
everyday practice.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14043
PMID: 33949693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Front Oncol. 2021 Apr 20;11:638897. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.638897.
eCollection  2021.

c-Rel Is the Pivotal NF-κB Subunit in Germinal Center Diffuse Large B-Cell 
Lymphoma: A LYSA Study.

Faumont N(1), Taoui O(1), Collares D(2), Jais JP(3), Leroy K(4), Prévaud L(1), 
Jardin F(5), Molina TJ(2)(6), Copie-Bergman C(7), Petit B(8), Gourin MP(9), 
Bordessoule D(1)(9), Troutaud D(10), Baud V(2), Feuillard J(1).

Author information:
(1)CNRS UMR-7276, INSERM U1262, CRIBL, University of Limoges, and Hematology 
Laboratory of Dupuytren Hospital University Center (CHU) of Limoges, Limoges, 
France.
(2)Université de Paris, NF-κappaB, Differentiation and Cancer, Paris, France.
(3)Biostatistics Department, Imagine Institute, Paris, France.
(4)UMRS1138, Centre de Recherche des Cordeliers, Paris Descartes University, 
CARPEM, Department of Genetics and Molecular Biology, Cochin Hospital, 
Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, Paris, France.
(5)Inserm U1245 and Department of Henri-Becquerel Hematology Center and 
Normandie Univ UNIROUEN, Rouen, France.
(6)Pathology Department, Necker Hospital, Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris 
(AP-HP), Paris, France.
(7)IMRB-Inserm U955, AP-HP Henri-Mondor Hospital, Créteil, France.
(8)Pathology Department, CHU of Limoges, Limoges, France.
(9)Regional Reference Structure of Limousin Lymphomas, Clinical Hematology 
Department, CHU of Limoges, Limoges, France.
(10)EA3842, CAPTuR, University of Limoges, Limoges, France.

Relationships between c-Rel and GCB-DLBCLs remain unclear. We found that strong 
c-Rel DNA-binding activity was mostly found in GCBs on two independent series of 
48 DLBCLs and 66 DLBCLs, the latter issued from the GHEDI series. c-Rel 
DNA-binding activity was associated with increased REL mRNA expression. 
Extending the study to the whole GHEDI and Lenz DLBCL published series of 202 
and 233 cases, it was found that the c-Rel gene expression profile (GEP) 
overlapped partially (12%) but only with the GCB GEP and not with the GEP of 
ABC-DLBCLs. Cases with both overexpression of REL mRNA and c-Rel GEP were 
defined as those having a c-Rel signature. These cases were GCBs in 88 and 83% 
of the GHEDI or Lenz's DLBCL series respectively. The c-Rel signature was also 
associated with various recurrent GCB-DLBCL genetic events, including REL gains, 
BCL2 translocation, MEF2B, EZH2, CREBBP, and TNFRSF14 mutations and with the EZB 
GCB genetic subtype. By CGH array, the c-Rel signature was specifically 
correlated with 2p15-16.1 amplification that includes XPO1, BCL11A, and USP34 
and with the 22q11.22 deletion that covers IGLL5 and PRAME. The total number of 
gene copy number aberrations, so-called genomic imbalance complexity, was 
decreased in cases with the c-Rel signature. These cases exhibited a better 
overall survival. Functionally, overexpression of c-Rel induced its constitutive 
nuclear localization and protected cells against apoptosis while its repression 
tended to increase cell death. These results show that, clinically and 
biologically, c-Rel is the pivotal NF-κB subunit in the GCB-DLBCL subgroup. 
Functionally, c-Rel overexpression could directly promote DLBCL tumorigenesis 
without need for further activation signals.

Copyright © 2021 Faumont, Taoui, Collares, Jais, Leroy, Prévaud, Jardin, Molina, 
Copie-Bergman, Petit, Gourin, Bordessoule, Troutaud, Baud and Feuillard.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.638897
PMCID: PMC8095348
PMID: 33959502

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


364. Am J Dermatopathol. 2021 Nov 1;43(11):794-800. doi: 
10.1097/DAD.0000000000001885.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma Immunostaining in a Series of 
Melanocytic Neoplasms.

Googe PB(1)(2), Flanigan KL(3), Miedema JR(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Dermatology, and.
(2)Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, Chapel Hill, NC; and.
(3)AU/UGA Medical Partnership, Medical College of Georgia, Athens, GA.

In their 2018 article, Lezcano et al [AJSP 2018(11):1456] show that diffuse 
tumor cell nuclear reactivity for Preferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma 
(PRAME) is a feature of melanoma and that benign and atypical melanocytic tumors 
are PRAME negative or show only focal positivity for PRAME. We report our 
observations of PRAME staining in 253 melanocytic tumors. Tumors were classified 
by hematoxylin and eosin sections. The nuclear PRAME staining of neoplastic 
melanocytes in each case was categorized as absent, focally present, or 
diffusely present. The results were compared with those of Lezcano et al 105 of 
134 (78%) melanocytic nevi were completely PRAME negative. Of the 29 
PRAME-positive benign lesions, 28 exhibited focal but not diffuse positivity, 
including atypical (n = 11) and dysplastic nevi (n = 11). One of 11 Spitz nevi 
showed diffuse positivity (9%). Thirty-nine of 51 (76%) invasive melanomas, 41 
of 50 (82%) melanoma in situ, and 15 of 18 (83%) metastatic melanomas were 
diffusely PRAME positive. Excluding desmoplastic melanomas, 39 of 49 (80%) 
primary melanomas were diffusely PRAME positive. Our findings of PRAME staining 
in melanocytic neoplasia are in general agreement with those of Lezcano et al. 
Diffuse PRAME reactivity in neoplastic melanocytes is a feature of malignancy 
and was only otherwise seen in 1 Spitz nevus. Caution is advised in 
interpretation of PRAME reactivity in melanocytic tumors of uncertain 
classification because melanoma arising in association with nevus and some 
atypical melanocytic tumors may show focal or incomplete PRAME staining. Routine 
histopathological findings, clinical information, PRAME staining, and judicious 
application of molecular studies are steps leading to accurate classification of 
melanocytic neoplasia.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000001885
PMID: 33989214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


365. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2021 Apr 6;21:492-506. doi: 
10.1016/j.omtm.2021.03.026. eCollection 2021 Jun 11.

Discovery of key genes as novel biomarkers specifically associated with 
HPV-negative cervical cancer.

Liu Y(1)(2), Xu Y(1), Jiang W(1), Ji H(1), Wang ZW(1), Zhu X(1).

Author information:
(1)Center of Uterine Cancer Diagnosis & Therapy Research of Zhejiang Province, 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou, 325027, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

Cervical cancer is a common female malignancy that is mainly caused by human 
papillomavirus (HPV) infection. However, the incidence of HPV-negative cervical 
cancer has shown an increasing trend in recent years. Because the mechanism of 
HPV-negative cervical cancer development is unclear, this study aims to find the 
pattern of differential gene expression in HPV-negative cervical cancer and 
verify the underlying potential mechanism. Differentially expressed genes were 
compared among HPV-positive cervical cancer, HPV-negative cervical cancer, and 
normal cervical tissues retrieved from TCGA. Subsequently, dysregulated 
differentially expressed genes specifically existed in HPV-negative cervical 
cancer tissues and HPV-negative cell lines were validated by qRT-PCR, western 
blotting, and immunohistochemical staining. We found seventeen highly expressed 
genes that were particularly associated with HPV-negative cervical cancer from 
analysis of TCGA database. Among the 17 novel genes, 7 genes (preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma [PRAME], HMGA2, ETS variant 4 [ETV4], MEX3A, 
TM7SF2, SLC19A1, and tweety-homologs 3 [TTYH3]) displayed significantly elevated 
expression in HPV-negative cervical cancer cells and HPV-negative cervical 
cancer tissues. Additionally, higher expression of MEX3A and TTYH3 was 
associated with a shorter overall survival of patients with HPV-negative 
cervical cancer. Our study implies that these seven genes are more likely to 
provide novel insights into the occurrence and progression of HPV-negative 
cervical cancer.

© 2021 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.omtm.2021.03.026
PMCID: PMC8091489
PMID: 33997099

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


366. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2021 May 17;54(7):e10612. doi:
10.1590/1414-431X2020e10612.  eCollection 2021.

Prognostic implications of immune-related eight-gene signature in pediatric 
brain tumors.

Wang Y(1), Zhou C(2), Luo H(3), Cao J(4), Ma C(3), Cheng L(5), Yang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology and Neonatal Intensive Care, Zhumadian Central 
Hospital, Zhumadian, China.
(2)Neonatal Intensive Care Unit, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and the Berlin Institute of Health, 
Berlin, Germany.
(4)Department of Anatomy, College of Basic Medicine, Zhengzhou University, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(5)Digital Medical Laboratory, Zhumadian Central Hospital, Zhumadian, China.

Genomic studies have provided insights into molecular subgroups and oncogenic 
drivers of pediatric brain tumors (PBT) that may lead to novel therapeutic 
strategies. Participants of the cohort Pediatric Brain Tumor Atlas: CBTTC (CBTTC 
cohort), were randomly divided into training and validation cohorts. In the 
training cohort, Kaplan-Meier analysis and univariate Cox regression model were 
applied to preliminary screening of prognostic genes. The LASSO Cox regression 
model was implemented to build a multi-gene signature, which was then validated 
in the validation and CBTTC cohorts through Kaplan-Meier, Cox, and receiver 
operating characteristic curve (ROC) analyses. Also, gene set enrichment 
analysis (GSEA) and immune infiltrating analyses were conducted to understand 
function annotation and the role of the signature in the tumor microenvironment. 
An eight-gene signature was built, which was examined by Kaplan-Meier analysis, 
revealing that a significant overall survival difference was seen, either in the 
training or validation cohorts. The eight-gene signature was further proven to 
be independent of other clinic-pathologic parameters via the Cox regression 
analyses. Moreover, ROC analysis demonstrated that this signature owned a better 
predictive power of PBT prognosis. Furthermore, GSEA and immune infiltrating 
analyses showed that the signature had close interactions with immune-related 
pathways and was closely related to CD8 T cells and monocytes in the tumor 
environment. Identifying the eight-gene signature (CBX7, JADE2, IGF2BP3, OR2W6P, 
PRAME, TICRR, KIF4A, and PIMREG) could accurately identify patients' prognosis 
and the signature had close interactions with the immunodominant tumor 
environment, which may provide insight into personalized prognosis prediction 
and new therapies for PBT patients.

DOI: 10.1590/1414-431X2020e10612
PMCID: PMC8130135
PMID: 34008756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Leuk Lymphoma. 2021 Oct;62(10):2448-2456. doi:
10.1080/10428194.2021.1919659.  Epub 2021 May 20.

High PRAME expression is associated with poor survival and early disease 
progression in myelodysplastic syndromes with a low bone marrow blast 
percentage.

Shiseki M(1), Ishii M(1), Ohwashi M(1), Wang YH(1), Tanaka N(1), Osanai S(1), 
Yoshinaga K(1), Mori N(1)(2), Tanaka J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Tokyo Women's Medical University Medical 
Center East 1-10, Tokyo, Japan.

We investigated the clinical implications of preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME) expression in bone marrow cells of 116 patients with 
myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). Quantitative RT-PCR was carried out to examine 
the PRAME expression level. High PRAME expression was observed in MDS patients 
classified into higher revised International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS-R) 
risk categories (Very high and High) with a high bone marrow blast percentage 
(5% or higher). Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated that high PRAME expression is 
significantly associated with a poorer overall survival (OS) in MDS patients 
with a low bone marrow blast percentage (less than 5%) (log-rank test p = .0014) 
and those classified into lower IPSS-R risk categories (Very Low, Low, and 
Intermediate) (log-rank test, p = .0035). In contrast, there was no significant 
association between PRAME expression and OS in MDS patients with a high bone 
marrow blast percentage or those classified into higher IPSS-R risk categories. 
In addition, high PRAME expression was associated with early disease progression 
in MDS patients with a low bone marrow blast percentage. This study suggested 
PRAME expression to be a prognostic factor in MDS.

DOI: 10.1080/10428194.2021.1919659
PMID: 34013846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Surg Pathol Clin. 2021 Jun;14(2):165-175. doi: 10.1016/j.path.2021.01.001.
Epub  2021 Apr 28.

PRAME Immunohistochemistry as an Ancillary Test for the Assessment of 
Melanocytic Lesions.

Lezcano C(1), Jungbluth AA(2), Busam KJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA. Electronic address: lezcanom@mskcc.org.
(2)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a melanoma-associated 
antigen expressed in cutaneous and ocular melanomas and some other malignant 
neoplasms, while its expression in normal tissue and benign tumors is limited. 
Detection of PRAME protein expression by immunohistochemistry in a cohort of 400 
melanocytic tumors showed diffuse nuclear immunoreactivity for PRAME in most 
metastatic and primary melanomas. In contrast, most nevi were negative for PRAME 
or showed nondiffuse immunoreactivity. The difference in the extent of 
immunoreactivity for PRAME in unambiguous melanocytic tumors prompted the study 
of PRAME as an ancillary tool for evaluating melanocytic lesions in more 
challenging scenarios.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.path.2021.01.001
PMCID: PMC8152939
PMID: 34023098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have disclosed that they 
have no significant relationships with, or financial interest in, any commercial 
companies pertaining to this article.


369. Br J Haematol. 2021 Jul;194(1):158-167. doi: 10.1111/bjh.17464. Epub 2021
May  26.

Non-transplantable cord blood units as a source for adoptive immunotherapy of 
leukaemia and a paradigm of circular economy in medicine.

Koukoulias K(1)(2), Papadopoulou A(1), Kouimtzidis A(1)(2), Papayanni PG(1)(2), 
Papaloizou A(3), Sotiropoulos D(1), Yiangou M(2), Costeas P(3), Anagnostopoulos 
A(1), Yannaki E(1), Kaloyannidis P(4).

Author information:
(1)Gene and Cell Therapy Center, Hematology Department-HCT Unit, George 
Papanikolaou Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Department of Genetics, Development and Molecular Biology, School of Biology, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(3)Karaiskakio Foundation, Nicosia, Cyprus.
(4)Adult Hematology and Stem cell Transplantation Department, King Fahad 
Specialist Hospital Dammam, Dammam, Saudi Arabia.

Erratum in
    Br J Haematol. 2022 Oct;199(1):159.

Advances in immunotherapy with T cells armed with chimeric antigen receptors 
(CAR-Ts), opened up new horizons for the treatment of B-cell lymphoid 
malignancies. However, the lack of appropriate targetable antigens on the 
malignant myeloid cell deprives patients with refractory acute myeloid leukaemia 
of effective CAR-T therapies. Although non-engineered T cells targeting multiple 
leukaemia-associated antigens [i.e. leukaemia-specific T cells (Leuk-STs)] 
represent an alternative approach, the prerequisite challenge to obtain high 
numbers of dendritic cells (DCs) for large-scale Leuk-ST generation, limits 
their clinical implementation. We explored the feasibility of generating 
bivalent-Leuk-STs directed against Wilms tumour 1 (WT1) and preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) from umbilical cord blood units (UCBUs) 
disqualified for allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. By 
repurposing non-transplantable UCBUs and optimising culture conditions, we 
consistently produced at clinical scale, both cluster of differentiation (CD)34+ 
cell-derived myeloid DCs and subsequently polyclonal bivalent-Leuk-STs. Those 
bivalent-Leuk-STs contained CD8+ and CD4+ T cell subsets predominantly of 
effector memory phenotype and presented high specificity and cytotoxicity 
against both WT1 and PRAME. In the present study, we provide a paradigm of 
circular economy by repurposing unusable UCBUs and a platform for future banking 
of Leuk-STs, as a 'third-party', 'off-the-shelf' T-cell product for the 
treatment of acute leukaemias.

© 2021 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.17464
PMID: 34036576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Cell Biosci. 2021 Jun 1;11(1):102. doi: 10.1186/s13578-021-00612-6.

Subcellular localization of the mouse PRAMEL1 and PRAMEX1 reveals multifaceted 
roles in the nucleus and cytoplasm of germ cells during spermatogenesis.

Liu WS(1), Lu C(2)(3), Mistry BV(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Center for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 324 
Henning Building, University Park, PA, 16802, USA. wul12@psu.edu.
(2)Department of Animal Science, Center for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 324 
Henning Building, University Park, PA, 16802, USA.
(3)Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Comparative Medicine, King Faisal Specialist Hospital & 
Research Centre, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a 
cancer/testis antigen (CTA) that is predominantly expressed in normal 
gametogenic tissues and a variety of tumors. Members of the PRAME gene family 
encode leucine-rich repeat (LRR) proteins that provide a versatile structural 
framework for the formation of protein-protein interactions. As a nuclear 
receptor transcriptional regulator, PRAME has been extensively studied in cancer 
biology and is believed to play a role in cancer cell proliferation by 
suppressing retinoic acid (RA) signaling. The role of the PRAME gene family in 
germline development and spermatogenesis has been recently confirmed by a gene 
knockout approach. To further understand how PRAME proteins are involved in germ 
cell development at a subcellular level, we have conducted a systematic 
immunogold electron microscopy (IEM) analysis on testis sections of adult mice 
with gene-specific antibodies from two members of the mouse Prame gene family: 
Pramel1 and Pramex1. Pramel1 is autosomal, while Pramex1 is X-linked, both genes 
are exclusively expressed in the testis.
RESULTS: Our IEM data revealed that both PRAMEL1 and PRAMEX1 proteins were 
localized in various cell organelles in different development stages of 
spermatogenic cells, including the nucleus, rER, Golgi, mitochondria, germ 
granules [intermitochondrial cement (IMC) and chromatoid body (CB)], centrioles, 
manchette, and flagellum. Unlike other germ cell-specific makers, such as DDX4, 
whose proteins are evenly distributed in the expressed-organelle(s), both 
PRAMEL1 and PRAMEX1 proteins tend to aggregate together to form clusters of 
protein complexes. These complexes were highly enriched in the nucleus and 
cytoplasm (especially in germ granules) of spermatocytes and spermatids. 
Furthermore, dynamic distribution of the PRAMEL1 protein complexes were observed 
in the microtubule-based organelles, such as acroplaxome, manchette, and 
flagellum, as well as in the nuclear envelope and nuclear pore. Dual staining 
with PRAMEL1 and KIF17B antibodies further revealed that the PRAMEL1 and KIF17B 
proteins were co-localized in germ granules.
CONCLUSION: Our IEM data suggest that the PRAMEL1 and PRAMEX1 proteins are not 
only involved in transcriptional regulation in the nucleus, but may also 
participate in nucleocytoplasmic transport, and in the formation and function of 
germ cell-specific organelles during spermatogenesis.

DOI: 10.1186/s13578-021-00612-6
PMCID: PMC8170798
PMID: 34074333

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


371. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Dec;48(12):1442-1448. doi: 10.1111/cup.14078. Epub 2021
Jun  18.

PRAME immunohistochemistry is useful in the evaluation of conjunctival 
melanomas, nevi, and primary acquired melanosis.

LeBlanc RE(1), Miller DM(2), Zegans ME(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Geisel School of Medicine, 
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.
(2)Department of Surgery, Section of Ophthalmology, Geisel School of Medicine, 
Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.

BACKGROUND: Many dermatopathologists find conjunctival melanocytic 
proliferations challenging because they are rare relative to their cutaneous 
counterparts and have nuanced morphology and nomenclature. PRAME 
immunohistochemistry has been widely adopted for distinguishing cutaneous nevi 
from melanoma, but limited data exist assessing its utility in evaluating 
conjunctival specimens. In particular, it is uncertain whether it can predict 
the risk of melanoma progression in primary acquired melanosis (PAM).
METHODS: Thirty clinically annotated cases (two melanomas, three PAM with 
atypia, seven PAM without atypia, 15 nevi, two combined nevi, and a 
diagnostically challenging nevus with atypical features) were retrospectively 
evaluated with PRAME.
RESULTS: Strong, diffuse PRAME expression was present in melanomas and PAM with 
high-grade atypia, but not in PAM with low-grade atypia, PAM without atypia, or 
nevi. Scattered, faintly PRAME-positive intraepithelial melanocyte nuclei were 
identified in six nevi. A clonal nevus and nests of heavily pigmented type-A 
melanocytes in two additional nevi had cytoplasmic staining.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME was useful for distinguishing melanoma and its probable 
precursors from benign conjunctival melanocytic proliferations in our cohort. 
The data alert us to two diagnostic pitfalls in nevi: scattered, PRAME-positive 
intraepithelial melanocytes and cytoplasmic PRAME staining in type-A melanocytes 
and melanophages. Larger scale investigations are warranted to further 
substantiate these promising findings.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14078
PMID: 34089198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Nov;48(11):1410-1415. doi: 10.1111/cup.14091. Epub 2021
Jul  1.

Diagnostic utility of PRAME in distinguishing proliferative nodules from 
melanoma in giant congenital melanocytic nevi.

Gill P(1), Prieto VG(1)(2), Austin MT(3), Giubellino A(4), Torres-Cabala 
CA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(3)Department of Surgical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas, USA.
(4)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota 
Medical School, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA.

We describe a case of a melanocytic proliferation arising in a giant congenital 
melanocytic nevus (CMN) and outline the potential utility of an 
immunohistochemical study with PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma 
(PRAME) in distinguishing benign proliferative nodules (PN) from melanoma in 
this context. A 15-day-old girl presented with a fibrotic nodule clinically 
suspicious for melanoma within a giant CMN. Histopathological examination showed 
a predominantly intradermal melanocytic nevus with congenital features 
intermixing with an ill-defined proliferation of larger melanocytes 
demonstrating mild-to-moderate cytologic atypia and increased mitotic activity. 
Anti-PRAME was diffusely positive within the congenital nevus while negative 
within the larger proliferating cells. Chromosomal microarray analysis revealed 
whole chromosomal gains and losses only, consistent with a PN arising in a giant 
CMN. To our knowledge, PRAME expression in giant CMN, PN, and pediatric 
melanomas has not been previously described. Based on our experience with this 
case, we propose that differential patterns of PRAME expression may be present 
in these three lesions, allowing PRAME immunohistochemistry to potentially serve 
as a helpful adjunct diagnostic tool for laboratories that do not readily have 
access to molecular testing in rendering a diagnosis for atypical melanocytic 
proliferations arising in giant CMN.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14091
PMID: 34164835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Front Genet. 2021 Jun 11;12:662846. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2021.662846.
eCollection  2021.

Whole-Exome Sequencing Analysis of Human Semen Quality in Russian Multiethnic 
Population.

Kolmykov S(1)(2), Vasiliev G(1), Osadchuk L(1), Kleschev M(1), Osadchuk A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Branch of Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Novosibirsk, Russia.
(2)Department of Computational Biology, Sirius University of Science and 
Technology, Sochi, Russia.

The global trend toward the reduction of human spermatogenic function observed 
in many countries, including Russia, raised the problem of extensive screening 
and monitoring of male fertility and elucidation of its genetic and ethnic 
mechanisms. Recently, whole-exome sequencing (WES) was developed as a powerful 
tool for genetic analysis of complex traits. We present here the first Russian 
WES study for identification of new genes associated with semen quality. The 
experimental 3 × 2 design of the WES study was based on the analysis of 157 
samples including three ethnic groups-Slavs (59), Buryats (n = 49), and Yakuts 
(n = 49), and two different semen quality groups-pathozoospermia (n = 95) and 
normospermia (n = 62). Additionally, our WES study group was negative for 
complete AZF microdeletions of the Y-chromosome. The normospermia group included 
men with normal sperm parameters in accordance with the WHO-recommended 
reference limit. The pathozoospermia group included men with impaired semen 
quality, namely, with any combined parameters of sperm concentration <15 × 
106/ml, and/or progressive motility <32%, and/or normal morphology <4%. The WES 
was performed for all 157 samples. Subsequent calling and filtering of variants 
were carried out according to the GATK Best Practices recommendations. On the 
genotyping stage, the samples were combined into four cohorts: three sets 
corresponded to three ethnic groups, and the fourth set contained all the 157 
whole-exome samples. Association of the obtained polymorphisms with semen 
quality parameters was investigated using the χ2 test. To prioritize the 
obtained variants associated with pathozoospermia, their effects were determined 
using Ensembl Variant Effect Predictor. Moreover, polymorphisms located in genes 
expressed in the testis were revealed based on the genomic annotation. As a 
result, the nine potential SNP markers rs6971091, rs557806, rs610308, rs556052, 
rs1289658, rs278981, rs1129172, rs12268007, and rs17228441 were selected for 
subsequent verification on our previously collected population sample (about 
1,500 males). The selected variants located in seven genes FAM71F1, PPP1R15A, 
TRIM45, PRAME, RBM47, WDFY4, and FSIP2 that are expressed in the testis and play 
an important role in cell proliferation, meiosis, and apoptosis.

Copyright © 2021 Kolmykov, Vasiliev, Osadchuk, Kleschev and Osadchuk.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2021.662846
PMCID: PMC8232892
PMID: 34178030

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


374. Dokl Biochem Biophys. 2021 May;498(1):199-202. doi:
10.1134/S1607672921030091.  Epub 2021 Jun 29.

Monoclonal Antibodies to PRAME Protein Slow the Development of PRAME-Expressing 
Tumor.

Solopova ON(1), Finashutina YP(2)(3), Kasatkina NN(2), Lyzhko NA(2)(3), Turba 
AA(2), Kesaeva LA(2)(3), Misyurin VA(2)(3), Misyurin AV(3), Larina MV(4), Aliev 
TK(4)(5), Kirpichnikov MP(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Blokhin National Medical Research Center of Oncology, Moscow, Russia. 
solopova@msn.com.
(2)Blokhin National Medical Research Center of Oncology, Moscow, Russia.
(3)LLC GeneTechnology, Moscow, Russia.
(4)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Moscow, Russia.
(5)Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia.

Two monoclonal antibodies recognizing non-overlapping epitopes of the PRAME 
protein were injected into immunocompetent mice to study their influence on the 
growth of subcutaneous tumor nodes. The B16F10 murine melanoma line, either 
expressing human PRAME protein or bearing only a vector without PRAME gene, were 
used as transplants. Each of the antibodies showed the ability to suppress tumor 
growth of a PRAME-expressing tumour, but not a tumor without PRAME.

DOI: 10.1134/S1607672921030091
PMID: 34189650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Front Oncol. 2021 Jun 14;11:688410. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.688410.
eCollection  2021.

The Challenge of Melanocytic Lesions in Pediatric Patients: 
Clinical-Pathological Findings and the Diagnostic Value of PRAME.

Umano GR(1), Errico ME(2), D'Onofrio V(2), Delehaye G(1), Trotta L(1), Spinelli 
C(3), Strambi S(3), Franco R(4), D'Abbronzo G(4), Ronchi A(4), Papparella A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Woman, Child and General and Specialized Surgery, University of 
Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy.
(2)Department of Pathology, Azienda Ospedaliera di Rilievo Nazionale (AORN) 
Santobono Pausilipon, Pediatric Hospital, Naples, Italy.
(3)Pediatric, Adolescent and Young Adults Surgery Division, Department of 
Surgical, Medical, Pathological, Molecular and Critical Area, University of 
Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(4)Pathology Unit, Department of Mental and Physical Health and Preventive 
Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Naples, Italy.

Pediatric melanoma is a rare disease especially in children aged younger than 10 
years old. Recent estimates report a rise of disease incidence in both adults 
and children. Diagnostic work-up is challenging in pediatric melanoma, as it 
displays a wide range of clinical presentations. Immunohistochemical biomarkers 
have been reported as predictors of malignancy in melanoma, however data 
specific to pediatric melanoma are poor. Our study aims to contribute to provide 
evidence of pediatric melanoma clinical features and differential diagnosis in 
this patient population. We describe our experience with a retrospective case 
series of pigmented skin lesions including malignant melanoma, atypical spitzoid 
tumor, and benign nevi in children and adolescents aged less than 16 years. We 
described the clinical and demographic characteristics of the cohort and 
evaluated the immunohistochemical expression of the PReferentially expressed 
Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) for differential diagnosis of melanoma in children. 
The series displayed a similar distribution of melanoma between males and 
females, and the most common site of melanoma onset were the upper and lower 
limbs. In our cohort, PRAME was negative in most cases. Focal and slight 
positivity (from 1 to 5% of the neoplastic cells) was observed in four cases 
(two Spitz nevi and two atypical Spitz tumors). A moderate positivity in 25% of 
the neoplastic cells was observed in one case of atypical Spitz tumor. 
Immunohistochemical expression of PRAME might be useful in the differential 
diagnosis of malignant melanoma.

Copyright © 2021 Umano, Errico, D’Onofrio, Delehaye, Trotta, Spinelli, Strambi, 
Franco, D’Abbronzo, Ronchi and Papparella.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.688410
PMCID: PMC8237758
PMID: 34195089

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


376. Fac Rev. 2021 May 28;10:51. doi: 10.12703/r/10-51. eCollection 2021.

Recent advancements in the management of retinoblastoma and uveal melanoma.

Schefler AC(1)(2), Kim RS(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Retina Consultants of Texas, Houston, Texas, USA.
(2)Blanton Eye Institute, Houston, Texas, USA.
(3)McGovern Medical School, University of Texas Health Science Center at 
Houston, Houston, Texas, USA.

Retinoblastoma in children and uveal melanoma in adults can pose a serious 
threat to both vision and life. For many decades, enucleation was often the only 
option to treat these intraocular malignancies. For retinoblastoma, 
intra-arterial chemotherapy is often utilized as the primary treatment at 
advanced academic centers and has dramatically improved local tumor control and 
eye salvage rates. For uveal melanoma, both plaque brachytherapy and proton beam 
irradiation have served as widely utilized therapies with a local failure rate 
of approximately 1-10%, depending on the series. Major recent advancements have 
allowed for a better understanding of the genomics of uveal melanoma and the 
impact of certain mutations on metastatic susceptibility. Gene expression 
profile stratifies uveal melanomas into two classes: low-risk (class 1) and 
high-risk (class 2). A loss-of-function mutation of BAP1 is associated with a 
class 2 gene expression profile and therefore confers worse prognosis due to 
elevated risk of metastasis. On the other hand, gain-of-function mutations of 
EIF1AX and SF3B1 correspond to a gene expression profile of class 1A and class 
1B and confer a better prognosis. Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma 
(PRAME) is an antigen that increases metastatic susceptibility when expressed in 
uveal melanoma cells. In addition to plaque brachytherapy and proton beam 
irradiation, both of which have demonstrated superb clinical outcomes, 
scientists are actively investigating newer therapeutic modalities as either 
primary therapy or adjuvant treatment, including a novel nanoparticle therapy 
and immunotherapy.

Copyright: © 2021 Schefler AC et al.

DOI: 10.12703/r/10-51
PMCID: PMC8204763
PMID: 34195690

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.Dr Singh has collaborated with ACS on a large paper in May 2020: 
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/32105305/.No competing interests were disclosed.


377. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2022 Feb;71(2):433-444. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-021-02993-6. Epub 2021 Jul 4.

Epigenetic therapy in combination with a multi-epitope cancer vaccine targeting 
shared tumor antigens for high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome - a phase I 
clinical trial.

Holmberg-Thydén S(1)(2), Dufva IH(3), Gang AO(1)(4), Breinholt MF(5), Schejbel 
L(5), Andersen MK(6), Kadivar M(2), Svane IM(4)(7)(8), Grønbæk K(1)(4)(9), 
Hadrup SR(10), El Fassi D(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(2)Experimental & Translational Immunology (XTI), Health Technology, T-Cells and 
Cancer, Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark.
(3)Department of Oncology and Palliative Care, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Hillerød, Denmark.
(4)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(5)Department of Pathology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Herlev, Denmark.
(6)Department of Clinical Genetics, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(7)National Center for Cancer Immune Therapy, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Herlev, Denmark.
(8)Department of Oncology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Herlev, Denmark.
(9)Biotech Research and Innovation Centre, BRIC, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(10)Experimental & Translational Immunology (XTI), Health Technology, T-Cells 
and Cancer, Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark. sirha@dtu.dk.
(11)Department of Hematology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. daniel.el.fassi.01@regionh.dk.
(12)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. daniel.el.fassi.01@regionh.dk.

BACKGROUND: Standard care for patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome 
(MDS) is hypomethylating agents such as azacitidine (AZA), which can induce 
expression of methylated tumor-associated antigens and therefore potentiate 
immunotherapeutic targeting.
METHOD: In this phase 1 trial, we combined AZA with a therapeutic peptide 
vaccine targeting antigens encoded from NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A3, PRAME, and WT-1, 
which have previously been demonstrated to be upregulated by AZA treatment.
RESULT: Five patients who had responded to AZA monotherapy were included in the 
study and treated with the vaccine. The combination therapy showed only few 
adverse events during the study period, whereof none classified as serious. 
However, no specific immune responses could be detected using intracellular 
cytokine staining or ELISpot assays. Minor changes in the phenotypic composition 
of immune cells and their expression of stimulatory and inhibitory markers were 
detected. All patients progressed to AML with a mean time to progression from 
inclusion (TTP) of 5.2 months (range 2.8 to 7.6). Mean survival was 18.1 months 
(range 10.9 to 30.6) from MDS diagnosis and 11.3 months (range 4.3 to 22.2) from 
inclusion. Sequencing of bone marrow showed clonal expansion of malignant cells, 
as well as appearance of novel mutations.
CONCLUSION: The patients progressed to AML with an average time of only five 
months after initiating the combination therapy. This may be unrelated to the 
experimental treatment, but the trial was terminated early as there was no sign 
of clinical benefit or immunological response. Why the manuscript is especially 
interesting This study is the first to exploit the potential synergistic effects 
of combining a multi-peptide cancer vaccine with epigenetic therapy in MDS. 
Although our results are negative, they emphasize challenges to induce immune 
reactivity in patients with high-risk MDS.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-021-02993-6
PMID: 34218294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Histopathology. 2021 Dec;79(6):989-996. doi: 10.1111/his.14452. Epub 2021
Sep 5.

PRAME expression in melanocytic lesions of the conjunctiva.

Šekoranja D(1), Hawlina G(2), Pižem J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Ljubljana, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(2)Eye Clinic, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

AIMS: PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a 
tumour-associated antigen that is preferentially strongly expressed in most 
cutaneous melanomas but not or only focally in naevi. Our aim was to evaluate 
PRAME expression in melanocytic lesions of the conjunctiva.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Surgical specimens of 114 conjunctival melanocytic naevi of 
different types (including 67 common, 25 combined deep penetrating and 21 
inflamed juvenile naevi), 30 invasive melanomas, 10 in-situ melanomas, 23 
primary acquired melanoses (PAM) without atypia and 11 PAM with atypia were 
analysed for PRAME expression by immunohistochemistry. Nuclear positivity for 
PRAME in melanocytes was assessed as the percentage of positive nuclei: negative 
(0%), 1+ (1-25%), 2+ (26-50%), 3+ (51-75%) and 4+ (> 75%). In 113 of 114 
conjunctival melanocytic naevi, PRAME was either completely negative or focally 
1+ positive. Diffuse 4+ PRAME expression was identified in 17 of 30 (57%) 
invasive melanomas, seven of 10 (70%) in-situ melanomas, four of five (80%) PAM 
with severe atypia, none of three PAM with moderate atypia, none of three PAM 
with mild atypia, one of 23 (4%) PAM without atypia and none of 114 naevi. 
Diffuse 4+ PRAME expression in invasive melanomas correlated with a higher 
mitotic count but was not related to age and gender of the patients, Breslow 
thickness, location or mutational status.
CONCLUSION: Diffuse 4+ PRAME positivity is highly specific for malignant 
conjunctival melanocytic lesions. PRAME is therefore a useful ancillary marker 
to support the diagnosis of a suspected conjunctival melanoma.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.14452
PMID: 34268800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. J BUON. 2021 May-Jun;26(3):992-1001.

The effect of preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) expression 
status on survival in stage II and stage III colon cancer.

Ogul A(1), Paydas S, Doran F, Erdogan KE, Tohumcuoglu M, Buyuksimsek M, Mirili 
C, Yetisir AE.

Author information:
(1)Adana City Education and Research Hospital, Department of Medical Oncology, 
Adana, Turkey.

PURPOSE: There are no studies showing PRAME expression in stage II and III colon 
adenocarcinoma. In this study, we aimed to determine the frequency of PRAME 
expression and the relationship with survival and clinicopathological data in 
stage II and III colon adenocarcinoma that need adjuvant therapy.
METHODS: Included were 81 patients with stage II and III colon cancer with 
adjuvant therapy without a second malignancy and systemic inflammatory diseases.
RESULTS: A statistically significant relationship was detected between PRAME 
expression and disease progression and survival (p=0.01 and p=0.003, 
respectively). Shorter disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) 
were detected in right colon tumors in patients with lymph node metastasis, 
metastatic lymph node >3, N1 or N2 according to the TNM staging system, with 
lymphovascular invasion, perineural invasion and PRAME expression (p=0.004, 
p=0.023, p=0.002, p=0.004, p=0.001, p=0.006, p=0.01, respectively and p=0.009, 
p=0.037, p=0.001, p=0.004, p=0.003, p=0.004, p=0.006, respectively). In 
multivariate analysis, it was determined that right colon tumor (HR: 0.488, 95% 
CI, 0.201-0.998, p=0.049) and PRAME expression (HR: 0.423, 95% CI, 0.170-1.052, 
p=0.046) were independent risk factors for short DFS. For the OS, only the 
presence of PRAME expression was determined as an independent risk factor. 
(HR:0.332, 95%CI, 0.129-0.856, p=0.022).
CONCLUSION: PRAME can be a potential target in immunotherapy in colon cancer 
treatment.

PMID: 34268964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Jan;49(1):7-16. doi: 10.1111/cup.14098. Epub 2021 Aug
6.

Melanocytic hyperplasia associated with surgical scars in basal cell carcinoma 
re-excision specimens: A single-center retrospective study.

Farah M(1), Suzuki S(1), Bhawan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Dermatopathology Section, Department of Dermatology, Boston University School 
of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Melanocytic hyperplasia (MH) overlying surgical scars has been 
reported but MH adjacent to the scar has not been previously addressed.
METHODS: We evaluated scar-associated MH in 489 re-excision specimens of basal 
cell carcinoma. Melanocytic density, confluence, atypia, suprabasal scatter, 
follicular extension, distance from the scar, correlation with clinicopathologic 
parameters, and PRAME expression were recorded.
RESULTS: One hundred seventy-seven of 489 (36%) cases exhibited MH beyond the 
scar extending to 6.65 mm median distance, with a median density of 13 
melanocytes/0.5 mm (6-24 mm), confluence in 74 (42%) cases, atypia in 14 (8%), 
suprabasal melanocytes in 25 (14%), and follicular extension in 21 (12%). Mean 
age of MH group was significantly lower than non-MH group (P < 0.0001). MH 
overlying the scar was significantly higher in specimens with elastosis than 
those without elastosis (P < 0.0001). PRAME expression was absent in 14 of 20 
cases and present in rare melanocytes in 6 cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased melanocytic density with confluence, mild atypia, 
suprabasal scatter, and superficial follicular extension may be observed in 
re-excision specimens adjacent to surgical scars in the absence of a melanocytic 
neoplasm. These observations are helpful for appropriate interpretation of 
melanoma re-excision specimens, to avoid potential pitfalls in diagnosis and 
unnecessary therapeutic measures.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14098
PMID: 34269471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Oct;48(10):1324-1327. doi: 10.1111/cup.14100. Epub 2021
Jul  29.

Cytoplasmic expression of PMS2 (clone EP51), PRAME, and STAT6 (clone YE361) as a 
potential immunohistochemical finding for detection of sebocyte differentiation.

Goto K(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7), Sugino T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Sunto, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Pathology, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Disease 
Center, Komagome Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Pathology, Itabashi Central Clinical Laboratory, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Tokyo Medical University Hospital, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Cytology, Osaka International Cancer 
Institute, Osaka, Japan.
(6)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Osaka National Hospital, Osaka, Japan.
(7)Department of Dermatology, Hyogo Cancer Center, Akashi, Japan.

Comment on
    J Cutan Pathol. 2021 Oct;48(10):1252-1261.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14100
PMID: 34272743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Front Oncol. 2021 Jul 2;11:675296. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.675296.
eCollection  2021.

The WHO 2018 Classification of Cutaneous Melanocytic Neoplasms: Suggestions From 
Routine Practice.

Ferrara G(1), Argenziano G(2).

Author information:
(1)Anatomic Pathology Unit, Macerata General Hospital, Macerata, Italy.
(2)Department of Dermatology, 'Luigi Vanvitelli' University School of Medicine, 
Naples, Italy.

The "multidimensional" World Health Organization (WHO) classification 2018 of 
melanocytic tumors encompasses nine melanoma pathways (seven of which for 
cutaneous melanoma) according to a progression model in which morphologically 
intermediate melanocytic tumors are cosidered as simulators and/or precursors to 
melanoma. These "intermediates" can be subclassified into: i) a "classical" 
subgroup (superficial/thin compound: dysplastic nevus), which is placed within 
the morphologic and molecular progression spectrum of classical (Clark's and 
McGovern's) melanoma subtypes (superficial spreading and, possibly, nodular); 
and ii) a "non-classical" subgroup (thick compound/dermal: "melanocytomas") 
whose genetic pathways diverge from classical melanoma subtypes. Such a 
progression model is aimed at giving a conceptual framework for a 
histopathological classification; however, routine clinicopathological practice 
strongly suggests that most melanomas arise de novo and that the vast majority 
of nevi are clinically stable or even involuting over time. Clinicopathological 
correlation can help identify some severely atypical but benign tumors (e.g.: 
sclerosing nevus with pseudomelanomatous features) as well as some deceptively 
bland melanomas (e.g.: lentiginous melanoma; nested melanoma), thereby 
addressing some ambiguous cases to a correct clinical management. The recently 
available adjuvant therapy regimens for melanoma raise the problem of a careful 
distinction between severely atypical (high grade) melanocytoma and "classical" 
melanoma: conventional morphology can guide an algorithmic approach based on an 
antibody panel (anti-mutated BRAF, BAP1, PRAME, ALK, TRKA, MET, HRAS-WT, ROS; 
beta catenin; R1alpha; p16; HMB45; Ki67), a first-line molecular study 
(identification of hot spot mutations of BRAF and NRAS) and an advanced 
molecular study (sequencing of NF1, KIT, BRAF, MAP2K1, GNAQ, GNA11, PLCB4, 
CYSLTR2, HRAS; fusions studies of BRAF, RET, MAP3K8, PRKCA); as a final step, 
next-generation sequencing can identify melanocytic tumors with rare genetic 
signatures and melanocytic tumors with a high tumor mutation burden which should 
be definitely ascribed to the category of classical melanoma with the respective 
therapeutic options.

Copyright © 2021 Ferrara and Argenziano.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.675296
PMCID: PMC8283700
PMID: 34277420

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


383. Am J Ophthalmol. 2022 Feb;234:1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2021.06.037. Epub 2021
Jul  18.

Multiple Genetically Distinct Uveal Melanomas Arise in the Same Eye of Two 
Patients with Melanosis Oculi.

Wagley S(1), Belin PJ(1), Dollar JJ(2), Harbour JW(2), Maltry AC(3), 
Mruthyunjaya P(4), Schefler AC(5), Tang PH(6).

Author information:
(1)VitreoRetinal Surgery, P.L.L.C., Minneapolis, MN, USA (S.W., P.J.B., P.H.T.).
(2)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute and the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA (J.J.D., J.W.H.).
(3)Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Neurosciences, University of Minnesota 
School of Medicine, Minneapolis, MN, USA (A.C.M., P.H.T.); Department of 
Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota School of Medicine, 
Minneapolis, MN, USA (A.C.M.).
(4)Byers Eye Institute, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, CA, 
USA (P.M.).
(5)Retina Consultants of Texas, Houston, TX, USA (A.C.S.).
(6)VitreoRetinal Surgery, P.L.L.C., Minneapolis, MN, USA (S.W., P.J.B., P.H.T.); 
Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Neurosciences, University of Minnesota 
School of Medicine, Minneapolis, MN, USA (A.C.M., P.H.T.). Electronic address: 
peter.tang.mdphd@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: To determine whether unilateral multifocal uveal melanomas (UM) in the 
setting of ocular melanosis (melanosis oculi) represent genetically independent 
tumors.
DESIGN: Clinical case series.
METHODS: Two patients with unilateral multifocal UM in the setting of melanosis 
oculi were included. Tumors were evaluated for gene expression profile (GEP) and 
next generation sequencing (NGS) for uveal melanoma-associated mutations. 
Histopathologic analysis of enucleated specimens was also performed when 
available.
RESULTS: Patients were both female, ages 73 and 83 years. In Patient #1, the 
tumors both exhibited Class 2 GEP but each harbored a unique BAP1 mutation. In 
Patient #2, one tumor was Class 1 and harbored an SF3B1 mutation, whereas the 
other tumor was Class 2 and harbored a BAP1 mutation.
CONCLUSIONS: Unilateral multifocal UM in the setting of melanosis oculi can 
arise due to the development of genetically independent primary tumors, which is 
detectable based on the mutation profile of each tumor. This is the first report 
of genetically-confirmed independent primary tumors in the setting of unilateral 
multifocal UM.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2021.06.037
PMID: 34283976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Jul 31;13(15):3864. doi: 10.3390/cancers13153864.

Diffuse PRAME Expression Is Highly Specific for Thin Melanomas in the 
Distinction from Severely Dysplastic Nevi but Does Not Distinguish Metastasizing 
from Non-Metastasizing Thin Melanomas.

Gassenmaier M(1), Hahn M(1), Metzler G(1), Bauer J(2), Yazdi AS(3), Keim U(1), 
Garbe C(1)(2), Wagner NB(4), Forchhammer S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Eberhard Karls University of Tübingen, 72076 
Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Dermatologie in Stuttgart, 70173 Stuttgart, Germany.
(3)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, University Hospital RWTH Aachen, 
52074 Aachen, Germany.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, Cantonal Hospital St. 
Gallen, 9007 St. Gallen, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) 
immunohistochemistry is increasingly used as diagnostic adjunct in the 
evaluation of melanocytic tumors. The expression and prognostic significance of 
PRAME in melanomas ≤1.0 mm and its diagnostic utility in the distinction from 
severely dysplastic compound nevi (SDN) have not been studied.
METHODS: We investigated and compared the immunohistochemical PRAME expression 
in 70 matched thin metastasizing and non-metastasizing melanomas and 45 nevi 
from patients with long-term follow-up (35 SDN and 10 unequivocally benign 
compound nevi).
RESULTS: Diffuse PRAME staining in >75% of lesional epidermal and dermal 
melanocytes identified 58.6% of thin melanomas but did not distinguish 
metastasizing from non-metastasizing melanomas (p = 0.81). A superficial 
atypical melanocytic proliferation of uncertain significance, in which the final 
diagnostic interpretation favored a SDN was the only nevus with diffuse PRAME 
expression (1/45). Melanomas and SDN with PRAME immunoreactivity exhibited 
different staining patterns. Most melanomas (67.6%) showed uniform PRAME 
expression in the in situ and invasive component, whereas most SDN (81.0%) 
showed a decreasing gradient with depth.
CONCLUSION: Diffuse intraepidermal and dermal PRAME staining is highly specific 
for melanomas in the distinction from SDN. PRAME expression is not a prognostic 
biomarker in melanomas ≤1.0 mm.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers13153864
PMCID: PMC8345662
PMID: 34359765

Conflict of interest statement: Gassenmaier reports grants and personal fees 
from Novartis, outside the submitted work. Hahn reports personal fees from 
Janssen-Cilag, outside the submitted work. Wagner reports personal fees from 
Sanofi and travel support from AbbVie and Amgen, outside the submitted work. 
Garbe reports personal fees from Amgen, grants and personal fees from BMS, 
personal fees from MSD, grants and personal fees from Novartis, grants and 
personal fees from NeraCare, personal fees from Philogen, grants from Roche, 
grants and personal fees from Sanofi, outside the submitted work. Forchhammer 
reports personal fees from Takeda, outside the submitted work. All other authors 
have nothing to disclose.


385. Oral Oncol. 2022 Jan;124:105500. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2021.105500.
Epub  2021 Aug 24.

PRAME immunohistochemistry is useful in the diagnosis of oral malignant 
melanoma.

Hovander D(1), Allen J(1), Oda D(2), Moshiri AS(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington School of Dentistry, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(2)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, University of Washington School 
of Dentistry, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(3)Division of Dermatology, Department of Medicine, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA 98195, USA; Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, 
Seattle, WA 98195, USA. Electronic address: amoshiri@uw.edu.

OBJECTIVES: While the incidence of cutaneous melanoma has dramatically increased 
in recent years, oral malignant melanoma (OMM) remains a rare form of 
noncutaneous melanoma with poor survival. PRAME (PReferentially expressed 
Antigen in MElanoma) is reported to have diagnostic and some prognostic utility 
in cutaneous melanomas and some head and neck malignancies. We sought to explore 
the diagnostic utility of PRAME in OMM.
METHODS: A total of ten specimens from eight unique cases of OMM were identified 
from the Oral Pathology Biopsy Service (OPBS) at University of Washington School 
of Dentistry between 2005 and 2019. For all cases, standard histology and 
immunohistochemistry stains were performed, including a stain against PRAME. The 
diagnoses were reviewed and confirmed by two pathologists. Clinical and 
epidemiologic features were described.
RESULTS: Patient ages ranged from 55 to 82. The group consisted of five males 
and three females. All eight cases were located on the hard palate. Six cases 
represented invasive melanoma while two were early melanoma in situ. PRAME 
immunohistochemistry was successfully performed on seven of eight cases: six 
were positive (86%), one was negative (14%) and one case lacked sufficient 
tissue for staining.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that PRAME immunohistochemistry may be useful 
in the diagnosis of OMM, including early melanoma in situ. Further studies with 
clinical follow-up and a larger number of cases are needed to explore prognostic 
value as well as the ability to distinguish between benign, intermediate and 
malignant melanocytic proliferations of the oral cavity.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2021.105500
PMID: 34452831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Blood Res. 2021 Sep 30;56(3):156-165. doi: 10.5045/br.2021.2020335.

The expression of multiple cancer/testis antigens can potentially be used to 
detect circulating disease and clonal evolution in the peripheral blood of 
multiple myeloma patients.

Shires K(1), Wyk TV(2), Wienand K(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Haematology, Department of Pathology, University of Cape Town and 
National Health Laboratory Service/Groote Schuur Hospital, South Africa.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(3)Division of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: It is thought that cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) are expressed in a 
cascade-like manner in multiple myeloma as the disease progresses. In this pilot 
study, we investigated the co-expression of several CTAs in the peripheral blood 
(PB) during patient therapy to establish whether monitoring multiple CTAs allows 
for the prediction of relapse and clonal evolution.
METHODS: We examined the co-expression of MAGEC1, MAGEA3, PRAME, and BAGE2 via 
quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) duplex 
assays in the PB mononuclear cells of 10 patients on chemotherapy at 3-month 
intervals, and correlated the levels to those of two basic clinical monitoring 
markers, serum -2-microglobulin and serum M protein. Clonal evolution was 
investigated using flow cytometry to label the circulating malignant stem cell 
components with MAGEC1, PRAME, and MAGEA3 antibodies.
RESULTS: Simultaneous monitoring of MAGEC1/PRAME provided sensitive detection of 
circulating malignant cells in easily accessible PB samples; transcript levels 
increased prior to changes in indicators of clinical relapse. While MAGEA3/BAGE2 
expression levels did not offer earlier prediction of relapse, they provided 
insight into significant changes occurring within the malignant cell population; 
the addition of either CTA to a MAGEC1-monitoring panel allowed for better 
classification of the relapse event (clonal evolution), which in turn could 
potentially guide treatment strategies in the future.
CONCLUSION: This pilot study supports the novel idea of determining the levels 
and CTA expression patterns of the total circulating malignant cell population 
(pro-B/pre-B stem cell progenitors and proliferating plasma cells) as an 
alternate disease monitoring methodology.

DOI: 10.5045/br.2021.2020335
PMCID: PMC8478621
PMID: 34462402

Conflict of interest statement: Authors’ Disclosures of Potential Conflicts of 
Interest No potential conflicts of interest relevant to this article were 
reported.


387. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Mar;49(3):220-230. doi: 10.1111/cup.14130. Epub 2021
Sep  20.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma and p16 expression in acral 
melanocytic neoplasms.

McBride JD(1)(2), McAfee JL(1), Piliang M(1)(2), Bergfeld WF(1)(2), Fernandez 
AP(1)(2), Ronen S(1), Billings SD(1), Ko JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Acral melanocytic neoplasms often pose diagnostic difficulty. Preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) expression and loss of p16 expression have 
diagnostic utility in melanocytic tumors. We examined PRAME and p16 expression 
in 30 acral melanocytic neoplasms (n = 11 nevi; n = 2 dysplastic nevi; n = 7 
Spitz nevi; n = 10 acral melanomas). PRAME was scored as % positive nuclei: 
negative = 0%; 1% to 25% = 1+; 25% to 50% = 2+; 50% to 75% = 3+, or positive: 
75% to 100% = 4+. p16 expression was defined as retained (homogeneous or 
checkerboard) or lost (complete or partial/regionally). PRAME expression was 
negative in all benign, dysplastic, and Spitz nevi. Conversely, all acral 
melanomas were diffusely (4+) positive for PRAME expression. p16 expression was 
retained in all benign acral nevi (8/11 homogeneous, 3/11 checkerboard), 
completely lost in one dysplastic nevus, and retained in all acral Spitz nevi 
(3/7 homogeneous, 4/7 checkerboard). p16 was retained in five of 10 acral 
melanomas (3/10 homogeneous; 2/10 checkerboard), and negative in five of 10 
acral melanomas (absent in 3/10, partially lost in 2/10). Our data suggest that 
4+ PRAME expression is highly sensitive and specific in the setting of acral 
melanomas and is a more predictive diagnostic tool compared with p16 
immunohistochemistry.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14130
PMID: 34476825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Blood Adv. 2022 Jan 25;6(2):473-485. doi: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2021005343.

Tumor-associated antigen-specific T cells with nivolumab are safe and persist in 
vivo in relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma.

Dave H(1)(2), Terpilowski M(1), Mai M(1), Toner K(1)(2), Grant M(3), Stanojevic 
M(1), Lazarski C(1), Shibli A(1), Bien SA(4), Maglo P(1), Hoq F(1)(2), Schore 
R(1)(2), Glenn M(5), Hu B(5), Hanley PJ(1)(2), Ambinder R(6), Bollard CM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cancer and Immunology Research, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, George Washington School of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Washington, DC.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA.
(4)Adaptive Biotechnologies, Seattle, WA.
(5)Division of Hematology and Hematologic Malignancies, Huntsman Cancer 
Institute/University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT; and.
(6)The Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD.

Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) Reed Sternberg cells express tumor-associated antigens 
(TAA) that are potential targets for cellular therapies. We recently 
demonstrated that TAA-specific T cells (TAA-Ts) targeting WT1, PRAME, and 
Survivin were safe and associated with prolonged time to progression in solid 
tumors. Hence, we evaluated whether TAA-Ts when given alone or with nivolumab 
were safe and could elicit antitumor effects in vivo in patients with 
relapsed/refractory (r/r) HL. Ten patients were infused with TAA-Ts (8 
autologous and 2 allogeneic) for active HL (n = 8) or as adjuvant therapy after 
hematopoietic stem cell transplant (n = 2). Six patients received nivolumab 
priming before TAA-Ts and continued until disease progression or unacceptable 
toxicity. All 10 products recognized 1 or more TAAs and were polyfunctional. 
Patients were monitored for safety for 6 weeks after the TAA-Ts and for response 
until disease progression. The infusions were safe with no clear dose-limiting 
toxicities. Patients receiving TAA-Ts as adjuvant therapy remain in continued 
remission at 3+ years. Of the 8 patients with active disease, 1 patient had a 
complete response and 7 had stable disease at 3 months, 3 of whom remain with 
stable disease at 1 year. Antigen spreading and long-term persistence of TAA-Ts 
in vivo were observed in responding patients. Nivolumab priming impacted TAA-T 
recognition and persistence. In conclusion, treatment of patients with r/r HL 
with TAA-Ts alone or in combination with nivolumab was safe and produced 
promising results. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as 
#NCT022039303 and #NCT03843294.

© 2022 by The American Society of Hematology. Licensed under Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), 
permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2021005343
PMCID: PMC8791594
PMID: 34495306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol. 2022 Jan 1;30(1):14-18. doi: 
10.1097/PAI.0000000000000972.

HMB45/PRAME, a Novel Double Staining for the Diagnosis of Melanocytic Neoplasms: 
Technical Aspects, Results, and Comparison With Other Commercially Available 
Staining (PRAME and Melan A/PRAME).

Grillini M(1), Ricci C(2)(3), Pino V(1), Pedrini S(1), Fiorentino M(1)(2), Corti 
B(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Unit, IRCSS Sant'Orsola-Malpighi Hospital and University of 
Bologna.
(2)Pathology Unit, Maggiore Hospital.
(3)Department of Experimental, Diagnostic, and Specialty Medicine (DIMES), 
University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a tumor-associated 
antigen that was recently found to be expressed by malignant melanocytic lesions 
but not by benign ones, thus resulting useful in this diagnostic field. PRAME 
could also be expressed by some normal tissues and nonmelanocytic tumors, 
suggesting as caution should be adopted to use PRAME as a "pan-melanoma" marker 
for the differential diagnosis with other malignant tumors. Until now, PRAME 
expression was exclusively investigated through single staining with a 
monoclonal antibody targeting PRAME and with double staining for Melan A/PRAME 
found to be useful in specific diagnostic sets. Herein, we studied the 
expression of PRAME in 40 melanocytic lesions and 23 nonmelanocytic ones using 
PRAME, Melan A/PRAME, and novel double staining for HMB45/PRAME. Although our 
results need to be validated, they support the adoption of HMB45/PRAME, alone or 
in combination with PRAME and Melan A/PRAME, as a helpful marker in the 
diagnosis of melanocytic neoplasms with a high concordance rate between primary 
melanoma and corresponding metastases.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/PAI.0000000000000972
PMCID: PMC9575561
PMID: 34508017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


390. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2021 Oct 5;118(40):e2105523118. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.2105523118. Epub 2021 Sep 30.

PRAMEF2-mediated dynamic regulation of YAP signaling promotes tumorigenesis.

Ghosh M(1), Das S(2).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Oncology Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi 
110067, India.
(2)Molecular Oncology Laboratory, National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi 
110067, India sdas@nii.ac.in.

PRAMEF2 is a member of the PRAME multigene family of cancer testis antigens, 
which serve as prognostic markers for several cancers. However, molecular 
mechanisms underlying its role in tumorigenesis remain poorly understood. Here, 
we report that PRAMEF2 is repressed under conditions of altered metabolic 
homeostasis in a FOXP3-dependent manner. We further demonstrate that PRAMEF2 is 
a BC-box containing substrate recognition subunit of Cullin 2-based E3 ubiquitin 
ligase complex. PRAMEF2 mediates polyubiquitylation of LATS1 kinase of the 
Hippo/YAP pathway, leading to its proteasomal degradation. The site for 
ubiquitylation was mapped to the conserved Lys860 residue in LATS1. Furthermore, 
LATS1 degradation promotes enhanced nuclear accumulation of the transcriptional 
coactivator YAP, resulting in increased expression of proliferative and 
metastatic genes. Thus, PRAMEF2 promotes malignant phenotype in a YAP-dependent 
manner. Additionally, elevated PRAMEF2 levels correlate with increased nuclear 
accumulation of YAP in advanced grades of breast carcinoma. These findings 
highlight the pivotal role of PRAMEF2 in tumorigenesis and provide mechanistic 
insight into YAP regulation.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.2105523118
PMCID: PMC8501796
PMID: 34593639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interest.


391. J Mol Diagn. 2021 Dec;23(12):1787-1799. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2021.09.004.
Epub  2021 Sep 29.

Measurable Residual Disease Monitoring of SPAG6, ST18, PRAME, and XAGE1A 
Expression in Peripheral Blood May Detect Imminent Relapse in Childhood Acute 
Myeloid Leukemia.

Skou AS(1), Juul-Dam KL(2), Hansen M(3), Lausen B(4), Stratmann S(5), Holmfeldt 
L(5), Aggerholm A(6), Nyvold CG(7), Ommen HB(6), Hasle H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, 
Aarhus, Denmark. Electronic address: annesofie.skou@dadlnet.dk.
(2)Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, 
Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Department of Clinical Genetics, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(5)Department of Immunology, Genetics, and Pathology, Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(6)Department of Hematology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(7)Hematology-Pathology Research Laboratory, Research Unit for Hematology and 
Research Unit for Pathology, University of Southern Denmark and Odense 
University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.

Overexpressed genes may be useful for monitoring of measurable residual disease 
(MRD) in patients with childhood acute myeloid leukemia (AML) without a 
leukemia-specific target. The normal expression of five leukemia-associated 
genes (SPAG6, ST18, MSLN, PRAME, XAGE1A) was defined in children without 
hematologic disease (n = 53) and children with suspected infection (n = 90). 
Gene expression at AML diagnosis (n=50) and during follow-up (n = 21) was 
compared with child-specific reference values. At diagnosis, 34/50 children 
(68%) had high expression of at least one of the five genes, and so did 16/31 
children (52%) without a leukemia-specific target. Gene expression was 
quantified in 110 peripheral blood (PB) samples (median, five samples/patient; 
range, 1 to 10) during follow-up in 21 patients with high expression at 
diagnosis. All nine patients with PB sampling performed within 100 days of 
disease recurrence displayed overexpression of SPAG6, ST18, PRAME, or XAGE1A at 
a median of 2 months (range, 0.6 to 9.6 months) before hematologic relapse, 
whereas MSLN did not reach expression above normal prior to hematologic relapse. 
Only 1 of 130 (0.8%) follow-up analyses performed in 10 patients in continuous 
complete remission had transient expression above normal. SPAG6, ST18, PRAME, 
and XAGE1A expression in PB may predict relapse in childhood AML patients and 
facilitate MRD monitoring in most patients without a leukemia-specific target.

Copyright © 2021 Association for Molecular Pathology and American Society for 
Investigative Pathology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoldx.2021.09.004
PMID: 34600138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Cell Mol Med. 2021 Nov;25(22):10376-10388. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.16967. Epub
2021  Oct 6.

Cancer testis antigen PRAME: An anti-cancer target with immunomodulatory 
potential.

Naik A(1), Thomas R(1), Al-Khadairi G(1)(2), Bacha R(1)(2), Hendrickx W(2)(3), 
Decock J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Translational Cancer and Immunity Center, Qatar Biomedical Research Institute 
(QBRI), Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU), Qatar Foundation (QF), Doha, Qatar.
(2)College of Health and Life Sciences (CHLS), Hamad Bin Khalifa University 
(HBKU), Qatar Foundation (QF), Doha, Qatar.
(3)Cancer Department, Research Branch, Sidra Medicine, Doha, Qatar.

PReferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer testis antigen 
with restricted expression in somatic tissues and re-expression in poor 
prognostic solid tumours. PRAME has been extensively investigated as a target 
for immunotherapy, however, its role in modulating the anti-tumour immune 
response remains largely unknown. Here, we show that PRAME tumour expression is 
associated with worse survival in the TCGA breast cancer cohort, particularly in 
immune-unfavourable tumours. Using direct and indirect co-culture models, we 
found that PRAME overexpressing MDA-MB-468 breast cancer cells inhibit T cell 
activation and cytolytic potential, which could be partly restored by silencing 
of PRAME. Furthermore, silencing of PRAME reduced expression of several immune 
checkpoints and their ligands, including PD-1, LAG3, PD-L1, CD86, Gal-9 and 
VISTA. Interestingly, silencing of PRAME induced cancer cell killing to levels 
similar to anti-PD-L1 atezolizumab treatment. Comprehensive analysis of soluble 
inflammatory mediators and cancer cell expression of immune-related genes showed 
that PRAME tumour expression can suppress the expression and secretion of 
multiple pro-inflammatory cytokines, and mediators of T cell activation, 
differentiation and cytolysis. Together, our data indicate that targeting of 
PRAME offers a potential, novel dual therapeutic approach to specifically target 
tumour cells and regulate immune activation in the tumour microenvironment.

© 2021 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by 
Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.16967
PMCID: PMC8581324
PMID: 34612587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors confirm that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


393. RETRACTED ARTICLE

J Healthc Eng. 2021 Sep 28;2021:2105176. doi: 10.1155/2021/2105176. eCollection 
2021.

mRNA Network: Solution for Tracking Chemotherapy Insensitivity in Small-Cell 
Lung Cancer.

Chen P(1)(2), Wu S(1)(2), Yu J(1)(2), Tang X(3), Dai C(3), Qi H(3), Zhu J(4), Li 
W(1)(2), Chen B(1)(2), Zhu J(1)(2), Wang H(1)(2), Zhao S(1)(2), Liu H(4), Kuang 
P(5), He Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji 
University Medical School Cancer Institute, Tongji University School of 
Medicine, Shanghai 200433, China.
(2)Medical School, Tongji University, Shanghai 200433, China.
(3)Oncology and Immunology BU, Research Service Division, WuXi Apptec, Shanghai, 
China.
(4)Department of Surgery, Shanghai Pulmonary Hospital, Tongji University, Tongji 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200433, China.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang 
University, Nanchang 330006, China.

Retraction in
    J Healthc Eng. 2023 Nov 1;2023:9858925.

BACKGROUND: Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) has poor prognosis and is prone to 
drug resistance. It is necessary to search for possible influencing factors for 
SCLC chemotherapy insensitivity. Therefore, we proposed an mRNA network to track 
the chemotherapy insensitivity in SCLC.
METHODS: Six samples of patients with SCLC were recruited for RNA sequencing. 
TopHat2 and Cufflinks were used to make differential analysis. Functional 
analysis was applied as well. Finally, multidimensional validation was applied 
for verifying the results we obtained by experiment.
RESULTS: This study was a trial of drug resistance in 6 SCLC patients after 
first-line chemotherapy. The top 10 downregulated genes differentially expressed 
in the chemo-insensitive group were SERPING1, DRD5, PARVG, PRAME, NKX1-1, MCTP2, 
PID1, PLEKHA4, SPP1, and SLN. Cell-cell signaling by Wnt (p=6.98E - 21) was the 
most significantly enriched GO term in biological process, while systemic lupus 
erythematosus (p=6.97E - 10), alcoholism (p=1.01E - 09), and transcriptional 
misregulation in cancer (p=0.00227988) were the top three ones of KEGG pathways. 
In multiple public databases, we also highlighted and verified the vital role of 
glycolysis/gluconeogenesis pathway and corresponding genes in 
chemo-insensitivity in SCLC.
CONCLUSION: Our study confirmed some SCLC chemotherapy insensitivity-related 
genes, biological processes, and pathways, thus constructing the 
chemotherapy-insensitive network for SCLC.

Copyright © 2021 Peixin Chen et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2021/2105176
PMCID: PMC8492269
PMID: 34621500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest.


394. Curr Mol Med. 2022;22(8):735-746. doi: 10.2174/1566524021666211027091719.

A Systematic Review of Potential Immunotherapies Targeting PRAME in Retinoid 
Resistant Oral Potentially Malignant Disorders and Oral Cancer.

Dwivedi R(1), Mehrotra D(1), Chandra S(2), Pandey R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, King George's Medical 
University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)MDS (Oral Pathology); Professor & Head, Department of Oral Pathology and 
Microbiology, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(3)DHR MRU, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

Backgound and objective: Early chemoprevention in Oral Potentially Malignant 
Disorders (OPMDs) and Oral Cancer (OC) has been extensively researched in order 
to mitigate the malignant transformation and progression of the lesion. Many 
agents have been attempted, but their cost inefficacy and inadequate outcomes 
posed a major hindrance in their successful adoption. Retinoid Based Therapy 
(RBT) though a cheap and effective treatment option, could not achieve much 
clinical usage because of variable responsiveness in clinical outcomes. Such 
clinical response variability may be attributed to the repression of retinoid 
receptors by Preferentially Expressed Antigen of Melanoma (PRAME) protein 
molecule. Therefore, in order to make RBT successful, targeting PRAME by various 
immunotherapies is an exciting area of research investigation. This review 
provides an insight into the various immunotherapeutic strategies targeting 
PRAME and their usefulness in retinoid-resistant OPMD and OC. Method of data 
collection: An exhaustive internet-based literature search following PRISMA 
(Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses) guidelines 
was carried out in PUBMED and Google SCHOLAR database using terms 'Anti-PRAME' 
OR 'PRAME Immunotherapy' OR 'PRAME Vaccines' AND 'Cancer' AND 'Retinoid 
resistance'. Only articles in the English language with at least 1 citation, 
published in a journal with impact factor ≥ 1, having relevance to the context 
and availability of full text were considered. Results: After an initial search, 
342 articles were yielded on the basis of inclusion criteria and, by reading the 
abstract and availability of full text, a total of 124 articles were selected. 
Further reading the full texts and considering articles from the references of 
the selected articles, a total of 65 articles were finally included in the 
review. Conclusion: Our analysis of the literature suggests that PRAME screening 
in OC and OPMDs prior to RBT should be done. In PRAME positive cases, approaches 
like PRAME based immunotherapy in the form of Cancer vaccine therapy [Acellular 
PRAME vaccine, PRAME pulsed Dendritic Cells (DC)]; Adoptive T Cell therapy/T 
Cell Receptor-T Cell therapy, Antibody therapy/Chimeric Antigen Receptor-T Cell 
therapy along with Presented antigen modulation Therapies employing histone 
deacetylase inhibitors and demethylation agents seem plausible. In the future, a 
combination therapy employing either PRAME vaccines or antibodies or Adoptive T 
cell Therapy and ATRA could be used in retinoid resistant OC and OPMDs.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1566524021666211027091719
PMID: 34711164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Pathology. 2022 Jun;54(4):486-488. doi: 10.1016/j.pathol.2021.07.014. Epub
2021  Oct 26.

A rare case of high grade myxoinflammatory fibroblastic sarcoma of the neck with 
PRAME immuno-expression: a potential pitfall.

Pulvers JN(1), Roberts ST(2), Wignall A(3), Chan RCF(4), Muljono A(5), Toon 
CW(6).

Author information:
(1)NSW Health Pathology, Department of Anatomical Pathology, Royal North Shore 
Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Royal North Shore 
Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia; University of Newcastle, Callaghan, NSW, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Royal North Shore 
Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Department of Anatomical Pathology, Electron Microscopy Unit, Concord 
Repatriation General Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Histopathology Department, Douglass Hanly Moir Pathology, Macquarie Park, 
NSW, Australia.
(6)NSW Health Pathology, Department of Anatomical Pathology, Royal North Shore 
Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia. Electronic address: 
christopher.toon@health.nsw.gov.au.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2021.07.014
PMID: 34711412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 Apr 1;44(4):282-286. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002092.

Sarcomatoid Dedifferentiated Melanoma: The Diagnostic Role of Next-Generation 
Sequencing.

Valiga AA(1), Fuller CG(1), Doyle JA(2), Lee JB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Biology, Thomas Jefferson University 
Hospital, Philadelphia, PA.
(2)Pennsylvania Dermatology Partners, Bensalem, PA; and.
(3)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Biology, Sidney Kimmel Medical 
College, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA.

Sarcomatoid dedifferentiated melanoma (SDDM) represents a diagnostic challenge 
as this cutaneous spindle cell melanoma lacks expression of classic melanocytic 
markers including S100, SOX10, Melan-A, HMB45, and MITF. The expression of the 
emerging melanoma marker preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) in 
SDDM is largely unknown. In this article, a case of SDDM arising in association 
with a nodular melanoma is highlighted. A 65-year-old man presented with a 
several week history of an ulcerated lesion on the right medial knee. A shave 
biopsy of the lesion revealed a biphasic neoplasm, which consisted of a 
centrally located poorly differentiated spindle cell component and an adjacent 
nodular component consisting of atypical melanocytes arranged in nests and 
fascicles. While the nodular component stained for S100, SOX10, and Melan-A, the 
spindle cell component failed to stain for these conventional melanocytic 
markers, only staining diffusely for CD10 and faintly for CD68. Both components 
stained for PRAME diffusely albeit less intensely within the spindle cell 
component. Next-generation DNA sequencing assay of the microdissected biphasic 
components revealed a shared mutation of NRAS. The results of the PRAME 
immunohistochemical stain and next-generation DNA sequencing assay facilitated 
in establishing the diagnosis of SDDM in association with nodular melanoma.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002092
PMID: 34726188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


397. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Apr;49(4):338-342. doi: 10.1111/cup.14163. Epub 2021
Nov  22.

PRAME expression in cellular neurothekeoma: A study of 11 cases.

Cesinaro AM(1), Piana S(2), Paganelli A(3), Pedroni G(3), Santandrea G(2)(4), 
Maiorana A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathological Anatomy, Modena University Hospital, Modena, 
Italy.
(2)Pathology Unit, Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Azienda USL-IRCCS Reggio 
Emilia, Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(3)Section of Dermatology, Modena University Hospital, Modena, Italy.
(4)Clinical and Experimental Medicine PhD Program, University of Modena and 
Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has been widely 
investigated in the skin, mainly in melanocytic tumors, and constitutes an aid 
in differentiating benign from malignant lesions. Very few studies have been 
performed on non-melanocytic tumors.
MATERIALS: We investigated the immunohistochemical expression of PRAME on a 
series of 11 neurothekeomas (NTKs), together with 3 cases of nerve sheath myxoma 
(NSM) and 1 case of plexiform fibrohistiocytic tumor (PFT), in order to evaluate 
the presence and usefulness of this marker in their differential diagnosis.
RESULTS: PRAME was variably expressed in all cases of NTK, with moderate 
intensity in three cases and faint in the remaining cases; on the contrary, 
cases of NSM and PFT were negative.
CONCLUSIONS: This study expands the entities of cutaneous non-melanocytic tumors 
expressing PRAME, and confirms that this marker is not restricted to malignant 
tumors. Expression of PRAME in NTK does not seem to be related to distinctive 
histopathologic features.

© 2021 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14163
PMID: 34761425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Hum Pathol. 2022 Feb;120:9-17. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2021.11.002. Epub 2021
Nov  18.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma immunohistochemistry as an adjunct 
for differential diagnosis in acral lentiginous melanoma and acral nevi.

Hu J(1), Cai X(1), Lv JJ(1), Wan XC(1), Zeng XY(1), Feng ML(1), Dai B(2), Kong 
YY(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 
200032, People's Republic of China; Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical 
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
200032, People's Republic of China; Department of Urology, Fudan University 
Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 200032, People's Republic of China. Electronic 
address: bodai1978@126.com.
(3)Department of Pathology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, 
200032, People's Republic of China; Department of Oncology, Shanghai Medical 
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, 200032, People's Republic of China. 
Electronic address: kyunyidb@126.com.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has shown promising utility 
in distinguishing benign melanocytic lesions from melanomas, but knowledge of 
its expression pattern in acral lentiginous melanoma (ALM) and acral nevi (ANs) 
is limited. Immunohistochemical expression of PRAME was examined in 75 ALMs and 
34 ANs. The clinical and histopathologic characteristics of patients with ALM 
were collected. PRAME was immunoreactive in 89.3% (67/75) of ALMs, but entirely 
negative in 94.1% (32/34) of ANs. When staining at least 50% of lesional 
melanocytes was determined as positivity, the sensitivity and specificity of 
PRAME for distinguishing ALM from ANs were 69.3% and 100%, respectively. 
Seventy-one cases of ALMs had tumor cells in the epidermis; 71.8% (51/71) of 
them showed positive for PRAME. By contrast, 61 ALMs had tumor cells in the 
dermis; 65.6% (40/61) exhibited positive expression. Twenty-nine of 39 (74.4%) 
epithelioid cell ALMs were observed to be positive for PRAME. By comparison, 
63.8% (23/36) of ALMs with spindle tumor cells were positive for PRAME. However, 
PRAME positive expression was not associated with any clinical and 
histopathologic characteristics of patients with ALM, including Breslow 
thickness, ulcer, cytomorphology, lymph node metastasis, or tumor-infiltrated 
lymphocytes (TILs). Nevertheless, we observed that 82.6% (19/23) of ALMs with 
lymph node involvement at diagnosis expressed PRAME, compared with 57.6% (20/35) 
of those without. In summary, PRAME immunohistochemistry can serve as a helpful 
adjunct in the differential diagnosis of ALMs and ANs with good sensitivity and 
high specificity. Additionally, PRAME tends to have a higher positive rate in 
epidermal melanocytes than in the dermis and is inclined to express in 
epithelioid cells than in spindle cells of ALMs.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2021.11.002
PMID: 34800527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Cell Rep. 2021 Nov 23;37(8):110047. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2021.110047.

Immuno-transcriptomic profiling of extracranial pediatric solid malignancies.

Brohl AS(1), Sindiri S(2), Wei JS(2), Milewski D(2), Chou HC(2), Song YK(2), Wen 
X(2), Kumar J(2), Reardon HV(3), Mudunuri US(3), Collins JR(3), Nagaraj S(4), 
Gangalapudi V(4), Tyagi M(4), Zhu YJ(2), Masih KE(5), Yohe ME(6), Shern JF(6), 
Qi Y(7), Guha U(7), Catchpoole D(8), Orentas RJ(9), Kuznetsov IB(10), Llosa 
NJ(11), Ligon JA(11), Turpin BK(12), Leino DG(12), Iwata S(13), Andrulis IL(14), 
Wunder JS(15), Toledo SRC(16), Meltzer PS(2), Lau C(17), Teicher BA(18), Magnan 
H(19), Ladanyi M(20), Khan J(21).

Author information:
(1)Sarcoma Department, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, 
Tampa, FL 33612, USA.
(2)Genetics Branch, CCR, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(3)Advanced Biomedical Computational Science, Leidos Biomedical Research Inc., 
NCI Campus at Frederick, Frederick, MD 21702, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Pathology, CCR, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(5)Genetics Branch, CCR, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA; Cancer Research UK 
Cambridge Institute, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK.
(6)Pediatric Oncology Branch, CCR, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(7)Thoracic and GI Malignancies Branch, CCR, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(8)The Tumour Bank, Children's Cancer Research Unit, Kids Research Institute, 
The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia.
(9)Ben Towne Center for Childhood Cancer Research, Seattle Children's Research 
Institute, Seattle, WA 98101, USA; Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98101, USA.
(10)Cancer Research Center and Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
School of Public Health, University at Albany, Rensselaer, NY 12144, USA.
(11)Pediatric Oncology, John Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, 
MD 21218, USA.
(12)Division of Oncology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital, 3333 Burnet Avenue, 
Cincinnati, OH 45229-3026, USA.
(13)Chiba Cancer Center, Chiba, Japan.
(14)Lunenfelf-Tanenbaum Research Institute, Sinai Health System; Department of 
Molecular Genetics, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(15)University of Toronto Musculoskeletal Oncology Unit, Sinai Health System; 
Department of Surgery, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(16)Support Group for Children and Adolescents with Cancer (GRAACC), Pediatric 
Oncology Institute (IOP), Universidade Federal de Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, Brail.
(17)The Jackson Laboratory, Farmington, CT 06032, USA.
(18)Molecular Pharmacology Branch, DCTD, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA.
(19)Department of Pediatrics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(20)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(21)Genetics Branch, CCR, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. Electronic address: 
khanjav@mail.nih.gov.

We perform an immunogenomics analysis utilizing whole-transcriptome sequencing 
of 657 pediatric extracranial solid cancer samples representing 14 diagnoses, 
and additionally utilize transcriptomes of 131 pediatric cancer cell lines and 
147 normal tissue samples for comparison. We describe patterns of infiltrating 
immune cells, T cell receptor (TCR) clonal expansion, and translationally 
relevant immune checkpoints. We find that tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes and TCR 
counts vary widely across cancer types and within each diagnosis, and notably 
are significantly predictive of survival in osteosarcoma patients. We identify 
potential cancer-specific immunotherapeutic targets for adoptive cell therapies 
including cell-surface proteins, tumor germline antigens, and lineage-specific 
transcription factors. Using an orthogonal immunopeptidomics approach, we find 
several potential immunotherapeutic targets in osteosarcoma and Ewing sarcoma 
and validated PRAME as a bona fide multi-pediatric cancer target. Importantly, 
this work provides a critical framework for immune targeting of extracranial 
solid tumors using parallel immuno-transcriptomic and -peptidomic approaches.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2021.110047
PMCID: PMC8642810
PMID: 34818552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests A.S.B. has advisory 
board relationships with Bayer, EMD Serono, and Deciphera. R.J.O. receives 
research support from and consults for Lentigen, a Miltenyi Biotec Company, and 
also consults for Umoja Biopharma. Other authors declare no competing interests.


400. Am J Clin Pathol. 2022 May 4;157(5):644-648. doi: 10.1093/ajcp/aqab200.

Immunohistochemical Expression of Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma 
(PRAME) in the Uninvolved Background Testis, Germ Cell Neoplasia In Situ, and 
Germ Cell Tumors of the Testis.

Ricci C(1)(2), Franceschini T(3), Giunchi F(3), Grillini M(3), Ambrosi F(1), 
Massari F(4), Mollica V(4), Colecchia M(5), Fiorentino M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Maggiore Hospital, AUSL-Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine (DIMES), 
University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(3)Department of Pathology, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(5)Department of Pathology, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milano, 
Italy.

OBJECTIVES: Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has a key role 
in regulating pluripotency of primordial germ cells and in the development of 
germ cell tumors of the testis (GCTT). However, its immunohistochemical 
expression in normal testes and its neoplastic counterpart remain largely 
unknown.
METHODS: We retrospectively investigated the expression of PRAME in 26 cases of 
GCTT, 21 cases of germ cell neoplasia in situ (GCNIS), and 17 cases of 
uninvolved background testes.
RESULTS: We found that PRAME was expressed more strongly by seminomatous rather 
than nonseminomatous GCTT (P = .000) and by pure seminoma rather than the 
seminoma component of seminomatous/nonseminomatous GCTT (P = .025). In addition, 
GCNIS and uninvolved background testes displayed high levels of PRAME 
expression.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME is an additional marker for the differential diagnosis of 
GCTT and could play a key role in the transition from seminomatous to 
nonseminomatous GCTT.

© American Society for Clinical Pathology, 2021. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcp/aqab200
PMID: 34864837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Int J Mol Sci. 2021 Nov 27;22(23):12845. doi: 10.3390/ijms222312845.

Sensitive Immunofluorescent Detection of the PRAME Antigen Using a Practical 
Antibody Conjugation Approach.

Sapozhnikova KA(1), Misyurin VA(2), Ryazantsev DY(1), Kokin EA(1), Finashutina 
YP(2), Alexeeva AV(3), Ivanov IA(1), Kocharovskaya MV(1)(4), Tikhonova NA(5), 
Popova GP(1), Alferova VA(1)(6), Ustinov AV(1), Korshun VA(1), Brylev VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Miklukho-Maklaya 
16/10, 117997 Moscow, Russia.
(2)N.N. Blokhin National Medical Research Center of Oncology, Kashirskoye 
Highway 23, 115478 Moscow, Russia.
(3)Faculty of General Medicine, Pirogov Russian National Research Medical 
University, Ostrovityanova 1, 117992 Moscow, Russia.
(4)Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology, Institutsky Lane 9, 141700 
Dolgoprudny, Russia.
(5)GeneTechnology LLC, Profsoyuznaya 104, 117437 Moscow, Russia.
(6)Gause Institute of New Antibiotics, B. Pirogovskaya 11, 119021 Moscow, 
Russia.

Bioconjugation of antibodies with various payloads has diverse applications 
across various fields, including drug delivery and targeted imaging techniques. 
Fluorescent immunoconjugates provide a promising tool for cancer diagnostics due 
to their high brightness, specificity, stability and target affinity. 
Fluorescent antibodies are widely used in flow cytometry for fast and sensitive 
identification and collection of cells expressing the target surface antigen. 
Nonetheless, current approaches to fluorescent labeling of antibodies most often 
use random modification, along with a few rather sophisticated site-specific 
techniques. The aim of our work was to develop a procedure for fluorescent 
labeling of immunoglobulin G via periodate oxidation of antibody glycans, 
followed by oxime ligation with fluorescent oxyamines. Here, we report a novel 
technique based on an in situ oxime ligation of ethoxyethylidene-protected 
aminooxy compounds with oxidized antibody glycans. The approach is suitable for 
easy modification of any immunoglobulin G, while ensuring that antigen-binding 
domains remain intact, thus revealing various possibilities for fluorescent 
probe design. The technique was used to label an antibody to PRAME, a 
cancer-testis protein overexpressed in a number of cancers. A 6H8 monoclonal 
antibody to the PRAME protein was directly modified with protected-oxyamine 
derivatives of fluorescein-type dyes (FAM, Alexa488, BDP-FL); the stoichiometry 
of the resulting conjugates was characterized spectroscopically. The 
immunofluorescent conjugates obtained were applied to the analysis of bone 
marrow samples from patients with oncohematological diseases and demonstrated 
high efficiency in flow cytometry quantification. The approach can be applied 
for the development of various immunofluorescent probes for detection of 
diagnostic and prognostic markers, which can be useful in anticancer therapy.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms222312845
PMCID: PMC8657778
PMID: 34884647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


402. Anim Genet. 2022 Feb;53(1):119-132. doi: 10.1111/age.13163. Epub 2021 Dec
13.

Copy number variants in genomes of local sheep breeds from Russia.

Igoshin AV(1), Deniskova TE(2), Yurchenko AA(1), Yudin NS(1)(3), Dotsev AV(2), 
Selionova MI(4), Zinovieva NA(2), Larkin DM(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)The Federal Research Center Institute of Cytology and Genetics SB RAS, 
Novosibirsk, 630090, Russia.
(2)L.K. Ernst Federal Research Center for Animal Husbandry, Podolsk, 142132, 
Russia.
(3)Novosibirsk State University, Novosibirsk, 630090, Russia.
(4)Russian State Agrarian University, Moscow Timiryazev Agricultural Academy, 
Moscow, 127550, Russia.
(5)Royal Veterinary College, University of London, London, NW1 0TU, UK.

Copy number variants (CNVs) are genomic structural variations that contribute to 
many adaptive and economically important traits in livestock. In this study, we 
detected CNVs in 354 animals from 16 Russian indigenous sheep breeds and 
analysed their possible functional roles. Our analysis of the entire sample set 
resulted in 4527 CNVs forming 1450 CNV regions (CNVRs). When constructing CNVRs 
for individual breeds, a total of 2715 regions ranging from 88 in Groznensk to 
337 in Osetin breeds were identified. To make interbreed CNVR frequency 
comparison possible, we also identified core CNVRs using CNVs with overlapping 
chromosomal locations found in different breeds. This resulted in 137 interbreed 
CNVRs with frequency >15% in at least one breed. Functional enrichment analysis 
of genes affected by CNVRs in individual breeds revealed 12 breeds with 
significant enrichments in olfactory perception, PRAME family proteins, and 
immune response. Function of genes affected by interbreed and breed-specific 
CNVRs revealed candidates related to domestication, adaptation to high altitudes 
and cold climates, reproduction, parasite resistance, milk and meat qualities, 
wool traits, fat storage, and fat metabolism. Our work is the first attempt to 
uncover and characterise the CNV makeup of Russian indigenous sheep breeds. 
Further experimental and functional validation of CNVRs would help in developing 
new and improving existing sheep breeds.

© 2021 Stichting International Foundation for Animal Genetics.

DOI: 10.1111/age.13163
PMID: 34904242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Front Oncol. 2021 Dec 1;11:763992. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2021.763992.
eCollection  2021.

Malignant Melanoma With Neuroendocrine Differentiation: A Case Report and 
Literature Review.

Cham J(1), Shavit A(1), Ebrahimi A(1), Viray M(2), Gibbs P(2), Bhangoo MS(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Scripps Clinic/Scripps Green Hospital, La 
Jolla, CA, United States.
(2)Department of Pathology, Scripps Clinic/Scripps Memorial Hospital, Encinitas, 
Encinitas, CA, United States.
(3)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Scripps Clinic/Scripps Green Hospital, 
La Jolla, CA, United States.

BACKGROUND: Melanoma has a wide range of histologic variants and cytomorphologic 
features that make its diagnosis challenging. Melanoma can also rarely have 
neuroendocrine markers adding further diagnostic uncertainty particularly given 
that unrelated tumor types, such as prostate cancer, can also display focal 
neuroendocrine differentiations.
CASE PRESENTATION: Our patient is a 74-year-old Caucasian man found to have a 
lung mass. Initial biopsy revealed typical microscopic morphology and 
neuroendocrine differentiation consistent with small cell carcinoma. Despite 
standard chemoradiation treatment, the patient continued to progress with new 
metastasis in the brain, liver and bone. Subsequent chest wall biopsy revealed 
golden-brown pigment associated with melanin. Further tumor immunohistochemistry 
revealed extensive neuroendocrine differentiation with CD56, synaptophysin, and 
INSM1, as well as strong immunoreactivity for melanocyte markers including 
SOX10, S100, PRAME, and MITF, consistent with metastatic melanoma with 
neuroendocrine differentiation. Genomic testing revealed increased tumor 
mutational burden and alterations in NF1, BRAF, CDKN2A/B, TERT. The patient was 
transitioned to checkpoint inhibitor therapy with nivolumab and ipilimumab and 
had resolution of his intracranial mass and decrease in size of other metastatic 
lesions.
CONCLUSION: Often the combination of anatomic findings such as a lung mass, 
typical microscopic morphology, and confirmation of neuroendocrine 
differentiation correctly identifies a patient with small cell carcinoma. 
However, in a patient who fails to respond to treatment, a broader 
immunohistochemical workup along with molecular testing with additional tissue 
may be warranted.

Copyright © 2021 Cham, Shavit, Ebrahimi, Viray, Gibbs and Bhangoo.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2021.763992
PMCID: PMC8671631
PMID: 34926265

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


404. Hum Pathol. 2022 Mar;121:19-28. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2021.12.008. Epub
2022  Jan 4.

Preferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma immunohistochemistry as an adjunct 
for evaluating ambiguous melanocytic proliferation.

Fattori A(1), de la Fouchardière A(2), Cribier B(3), Mitcov M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Strasbourg University Hospital, Strasbourg, 67200, 
France. Electronic address: antonin_fattori@hotmail.fr.
(2)Department of Biopathology, Léon Bérard Center, Lyon, 69008, France.
(3)Department of Dermatology and Dermatopathology, Strasbourg University 
Hospital, Strasbourg, 67200, France.

The histopathological assessment of diagnostically ambiguous melanocytic 
proliferation remains one of the biggest challenges in the dermatopathology 
field. Preferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) immunostaining has 
been shown highly specific for distinguishing unequivocal malignant melanocytic 
proliferation from benign ones. Knowledge on its utility for evaluating 
ambiguous melanocytic neoplasms remains limited. We retrieved in our 
institutional database all cases of diagnostically ambiguous melanocytic 
neoplasms from January 2016 to January 2021. Each case was subclassified into 
"favor benign" or "favor malignant" neoplasm using all collected data. 
Immunohistochemical expression of PRAME was assessed and correlated with the 
final subclassification. Using a previously proposed scoring system, diffuse 
immunopositivity (>75% of tumor cells) was considered positive. Furthermore, for 
ambiguous melanocytic proliferation occurring on a pre-existing nevus, the 
staining was considered positive if more than 75% of the morphologically 
atypical neoplastic cells were labeled, excluding morphologically unambiguous 
benign nevocytes. Fifty-five cases of ambiguous melanocytic proliferation were 
examined. Thirty-one cases were finally subclassified as "favor malignant" 
neoplasms and 24 as "favor benign" neoplasms. Thirty-one tumors showed 
immunopositivity for PRAME, representing, respectively, 8.3% and 93.5% of "favor 
benign" and "favor malignant" neoplasms. The specificity and sensitivity of 
PRAME immunohistochemistry for benign/malignant distinction were, respectively, 
91.7% and 93.5%.PRAME IHC shows high sensitivity and specificity for 
distinguishing malignant challenging melanocytic proliferations from benign ones 
and could be used as an everyday tool. However, PRAME immunoreactivity should be 
interpreted cautiously, knowing that rare benign melanocytic neoplasms could 
show diffuse positivity.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2021.12.008
PMID: 34990622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 Jun 1;44(6):404-410. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002128.  Epub 2022 Jan 5.

PRAME Expression in Challenging Dermal Melanocytic Neoplasms and Soft Tissue 
Tumors With Melanocytic Differentiation.

Kline N(1), Menge TD(2), Hrycaj SM(2), Andea AA(2)(3), Patel RM(2)(3), Harms 
PW(2)(3)(4), Chan MP(2)(3), Bresler SC(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI.
(2)Departments of Pathology, and.
(3)Dermatology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI; and.
(4)Rogel Cancer Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is an immunohistochemical 
biomarker that is diffusely expressed in most cutaneous melanomas and is 
negative in most benign nevi. Histologically challenging dermal melanocytic 
neoplasms, such as cellular blue nevi (CBN) and deep penetrating nevi (DPN), and 
soft tissue tumors with melanocytic differentiation, such as clear cell sarcoma 
and perivascular epithelioid cell tumor, may resemble primary or metastatic 
melanoma. PRAME immunohistochemistry (IHC) was applied to archived 
formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens of various dermal melanocytic 
neoplasms and soft tissue neoplasms with melanocytic differentiation. Staining 
was graded based on the percentage of melanocytes labeled (0-4+ as previously 
reported). The gold standard was final pathologic diagnosis using histologic, 
immunophenotypic, and in some cases molecular findings. Fifty-four cases were 
evaluated. 62.5% (5/8) of blue nevus-like melanomas and 50% (1/2) of DPN-like 
melanomas were PRAME positive (4+). Of the other tumors, 100% (20/20) of CBN 
(including 1 atypical CBN with borderline features); 100% (12/12) of DPN, 
combined DPN, or borderline DPN; 88.9% (8/9) of perivascular epithelioid cell 
tumors; and 100% (3/3) of clear cell sarcoma were PRAME negative (0-2+). Within 
the borderline categories specifically, all 8 tumors (1 borderline CBN and 7 
borderline DPN) showed low (0-2+) PRAME expression. Overall, the sensitivity for 
melanoma in this context was 60%, with a specificity of 97.7%. Although our 
sample size is limited, the results suggest that IHC staining for PRAME may be 
useful in supporting a diagnosis of melanoma in the setting of challenging 
dermal melanocytic neoplasms and other epithelioid neoplasms with melanocytic 
differentiation. However, PRAME IHC lacks sensitivity in this context.

Copyright © 2021 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002128
PMID: 34991102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


406. Cancers (Basel). 2021 Dec 21;14(1):3. doi: 10.3390/cancers14010003.

Shared Gene Expression and Immune Pathway Changes Associated with Progression 
from Nevi to Melanoma.

Borden ES(1)(2), Adams AC(1)(2), Buetow KH(3)(4), Wilson MA(3)(4), Bauman 
JE(5)(6), Curiel-Lewandrowski C(5)(6), Chow HS(5)(6), LaFleur BJ(7), Hastings 
KT(1)(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, University of Arizona College of 
Medicine Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ 85004, USA.
(2)Phoenix Veterans Affairs Health Care System, Phoenix, AZ 85012, USA.
(3)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85281, USA.
(4)Center for Evolution and Medicine, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ 85281, 
USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Arizona College of Medicine Tucson, 
Tucson, AZ 85724, USA.
(6)University of Arizona Cancer Center, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85724, 
USA.
(7)BIO5 Institute, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85724, USA.

There is a need to identify molecular biomarkers of melanoma progression to 
assist the development of chemoprevention strategies to lower melanoma 
incidence. Using datasets containing gene expression for dysplastic nevi and 
melanoma or melanoma arising in a nevus, we performed differential gene 
expression analysis and regularized regression models to identify genes and 
pathways that were associated with progression from nevi to melanoma. A small 
number of genes distinguished nevi from melanoma. Differential expression of 
seven genes was identified between nevi and melanoma in three independent 
datasets. C1QB, CXCL9, CXCL10, DFNA5 (GSDME), FCGR1B, and PRAME were increased 
in melanoma, and SCGB1D2 was decreased in melanoma, compared to dysplastic nevi 
or nevi that progressed to melanoma. Further supporting an association with 
melanomagenesis, these genes demonstrated a linear change in expression from 
benign nevi to dysplastic nevi to radial growth phase melanoma to vertical 
growth phase melanoma. The genes associated with melanoma progression showed 
significant enrichment of multiple pathways related to the immune system. This 
study demonstrates (1) a novel application of bioinformatic approaches to aid 
clinical trials of melanoma chemoprevention and (2) the feasibility of 
determining a gene signature biomarker of melanomagenesis.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14010003
PMCID: PMC8749980
PMID: 35008167

Conflict of interest statement: B.J.L. has received financial support from 
Cofactor Genomics and Iron Horse Dx. P.C. The remaining authors declare no 
conflict of interest. The funders had no role in the design of the study; in the 
collection, analyses, or interpretation of data; in the writing of the 
manuscript, or in the decision to publish the results.


407. Semin Diagn Pathol. 2022 Jul;39(4):239-247. doi:
10.1053/j.semdp.2021.12.003.  Epub 2022 Jan 1.

Immunohistochemistry in melanocytic lesions: Updates with a practical review for 
pathologists.

Saleem A(1), Narala S(1), Raghavan SS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia, 200 Jeanette Lancaster Way, 
Charlottesville, VA 22903, USA. Electronic address: sr7wq@virgina.edu.

This review provides a summary of the immunohistochemical markers pertinent to 
the diagnosis of melanocytic lesions. There is considerable morphologic overlap 
between benign and malignant melanocytic lesions, and given the significant 
differences in clinical management, the diagnostic workup becomes crucial. 
Immunohistochemistry aids in the distinction between various melanocytic 
proliferations and recent contributions to the literature have furthered our 
optimization of panels in the diagnostic workup. In recent years, SOX10 has been 
considered as the optimal marker for melanocytic lesions given the similar 
sensitivity but higher specificity than S100. HMB-45 is less sensitive than S100 
but demonstrates utility in confirmation of deceptively banal small cell and 
nevoid melanoma variants where deep nests of melanocytes are highlighted. 
Melan-A (MART-1) and MiTF show similar sensitivity to S100 however there is a 
lack of expression in spindle cell and desmoplastic melanomas.

Copyright © 2021 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semdp.2021.12.003
PMID: 35016807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Gene. 2022 Mar 30;816:146173. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2021.146173. Epub 2022 Jan
11.

The value of erlotinib related target molecules in kidney renal cell carcinoma 
via bioinformatics analysis.

Zhang Y(1), Tang M(2), Guo Q(3), Xu H(4), Yang Z(5), Li D(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Beilun District people's Hospital of Ningbo, 
Ningbo, Zhejiang 315800, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430022, China.
(3)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430022, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei 430022, China.
(5)Department of Oncology, Huanggang Central Hospital, Huanggang, Hubei 438000, 
China. Electronic address: 8099798@qq.com.
(6)Department of Oncology, Huanggang Central Hospital, Huanggang, Hubei 438000, 
China. Electronic address: 804180423@qq.com.

OBJECTIVE: Erlotinib was found to be an effective treatment for metastatic 
kidney renal cell carcinoma (KIRC). This study employed bioinformatics to 
explore the value of erlotinib's target molecules in KIRC.
METHODS: We screened GSE25698 dataset for differentially expressed genes (DEGs) 
following erlotinib treatment, followed by analyzing their underlying functional 
mechanisms. The value of DEGs was identified in TCGA database to construct risk 
model and nomogram, and possible mechanisms underlying model factors and their 
relationship with KIRC immune infiltration were analyzed.
RESULTS: Following erlotinib treatment, DEGs were involved in antigen binding, 
myeloid leukocyte activation, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, etc. COL11A1, EMCN, 
GLYATL1, HHLA2, IGFN1, LIPA, LRRC19, PANK1, PRAME, and TNFSF14 were independent 
factors influencing poor prognosis in KIRC patients. Age, grade, and risk score 
were independent risk factors influencing poor prognosis of KIRC patients. The 
risk score was associated with immune cells such as T cells regulatory, T cells 
follicular helper, macrophages M0, etc., and participated signaling mechanisms 
such as ERBB, insulin, mTOR, PPAR, apoptosis, MAPK, T cell receptor, etc. 
CONCLUSIONS: The expression levels of COL11A1, EMCN, GLYATL1, HHLA2, IGFN1 LIPA, 
LRRC19, PANK1, PRAME, and TNFSF14 were associated with KIRC prognosis and immune 
cell infiltration. The risk model and nomogram based on erlotinib's target 
molecules were expected to be a tool for evaluating the prognosis of KIRC 
patients.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2021.146173
PMID: 35026294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Cancer Res Treat. 2022 Oct;54(4):1175-1190. doi: 10.4143/crt.2021.1133. Epub
 2022 Jan 12.

Histopathologic and Molecular Biomarkers of PD-1/PD-L1 Inhibitor Treatment 
Response among Patients with Microsatellite Instability‒High Colon Cancer.

Hyung J(1), Cho EJ(2)(3), Kim J(4), Kim JH(1), Kim JE(1), Hong YS(1), Kim TW(1), 
Sung CO(2)(3)(4), Kim SY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Asan Center for Cancer Genome Discovery, Asan Institute for Life Sciences, 
Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Medical Science, Asan Medical Institute of Convergence Science 
and Technology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Pathology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

PURPOSE: Recent clinical trials have reported response rates < 50% among 
patients treated with programmed death-1 (PD-1)/programmed death-ligand 1 
(PD-L1) inhibitors for microsatellite instability‒high (MSI-H) colorectal cancer 
(CRC), and factors predicting treatment response have not been fully identified. 
This study aimed to identify potential biomarkers of PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor 
treatment response among patients with MSI-H CRC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: MSI-H CRC patients enrolled in three clinical trials of 
PD-1/PD-L1 blockade at Asan Medical Center (Seoul, Republic of Korea) were 
screened and classified into two groups according to treatment response. Their 
histopathologic features and expression of 730 immune-related genes from the 
NanoString platform were evaluated, and a machine learning-based classification 
model was built to predict treatment response among MSI-H CRCs patients.
RESULTS: A total of 27 patients (15 responders, 12 non-responders) were 
included. A high degree of lymphocytic/neutrophilic infiltration and an 
expansile tumor border were associated with treatment response and prolonged 
progression-free survival (PFS), while mucinous/signet-ring cell carcinoma was 
associated with a lack of treatment response and short PFS. Gene expression 
profiles revealed that the interferon-γ response pathway was enriched in the 
responder group. Of the top eight differentially expressed immune-related genes, 
PRAME had the highest fold change in the responder group. Higher expression of 
PRAME was independently associated with better PFS along with histologic 
subtypes in the multivariate analysis. The classification model using these 
genes showed good performance for predicting treatment response.
CONCLUSION: We identified histologic and immune-related gene expression 
characteristics associated with treatment response in MSI-H CRC, which may 
contribute to optimal patient stratification.

DOI: 10.4143/crt.2021.1133
PMCID: PMC9582482
PMID: 35038827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest This research was 
supported by HK inno.N Corp.


410. Dermatopathology (Basel). 2021 Dec 31;9(1):11-16. doi: 
10.3390/dermatopathology9010002.

Lack of PRAME Expression in Cutaneous T-Cell Lymphomas.

Bui CM(1), Kitahara S(1), Shon W(1), Pukhalskaya T(2), Smoller BR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Cedars Sinai Medical Center, 
Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (CTCLs) are rare tumors with no established markers 
that can reliably distinguish between benign and malignant lesions. 
Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer/testis antigen 
that is found in many solid and hematologic malignancies. PRAME overexpression 
typically portends a poor prognosis and lower chemotherapeutic response. To 
date, no studies have established a role for PRAME in CTCL. An analysis was 
performed on 47 cases definitively diagnosed as CTCL: 25 cases of mycosis 
fungoides, 2 of Sezary syndrome, 5 of CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorder, 7 of 
primary cutaneous anaplastic large T-cell lymphoma, 3 of primary cutaneous CD4+ 
small/medium T-cell lymphoproliferative disorder, 1 of subcutaneous 
panniculitis-like T-cell lymphoma, and 4 of angiocentric T-cell lymphoma. PRAME 
immunohistochemistry was completely negative in all cases. PRAME expression was 
not found in any CTCL subtypes, suggesting that the pathogenesis of CTCL is not 
mediated by PRAME. Further study is required to identify biomarkers that might 
aid in the diagnosis and prognostication of CTCLs.

DOI: 10.3390/dermatopathology9010002
PMCID: PMC8788415
PMID: 35076507

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


411. Ocul Oncol Pathol. 2021 Dec;7(6):418-427. doi: 10.1159/000519177. Epub 2021
Aug  26.

Uveal Melanoma and Paraneoplastic Perivascular Dermal Melanocytic Proliferation 
in the Setting of Bilateral Diffuse Uveal Melanocytic Proliferation: The 
Potential Role of the Hepatocyte Growth Factor/c-Met Axis in Their Pathogenesis.

Mudhar HS(1), Bata BM(2)(3), Quhill H(2), Milman T(4), Salvi SM(2).

Author information:
(1)National Specialist Ophthalmic Pathology Service (NSOPS), Department of 
Histopathology, E-Floor, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(2)Sheffield Ocular Oncology Service, Department of Ophthalmology, Royal 
Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Dalhousie University, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.
(4)Department of Pathology, Wills Eye Hospital, Sidney Kimmel Medical College of 
Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Two patients, with non-small cell lung carcinoma treated with pembrolizumab, 
developed bilateral diffuse uveal melanocytic proliferation (BDUMP) with 
interesting histopathological features. The first patient developed a right 
ciliary body mass concurrently with BDUMP. The globe was enucleated. The ciliary 
body mass was a mitotically active epithelioid uveal melanoma, invading the 
trabecular meshwork and peripheral corneal stroma, with over 90% of the cells 
expressing Cyclin D1 protein. The melanoma showed no chromosome 3 or 8 changes. 
The background uvea showed diffuse, bland spindle cell melanocytic proliferation 
with much lower Cyclin D1 expression (around 10%). In the choroid, this 
population was punctuated by islands of pigmented epithelioid cells, some of 
which were necrotic. All these islands expressed a high level of Cyclin D1, and 
some islands expressed nuclear preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma 
(PRAME). The ciliary body mass, epithelioid cell islands, and the BDUMP all 
expressed c-Met (the receptor for hepatocyte growth factor [HGF]). The features 
were those of ciliary body melanoma and choroidal melanoma "tumorlets," 
developing on a background of BDUMP. The second patient developed bilateral 
periocular skin pigmentation following a diagnosis of BDUMP, which when 
biopsied, showed dermal islands of paraneoplastic perivascular melanocytic cell 
proliferation. These cells also expressed c-Met protein. These observations 
implicate the HGF/c-Met axis in the pathogenesis of BDUMP, the uveal melanomas 
in the ciliary body and choroid in the first patient and the paraneoplastic 
dermal melanocytic proliferation in the second patient.

Copyright © 2021 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000519177
PMCID: PMC8740289
PMID: 35087819

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


412. Histopathology. 2022 May;80(6):1011-1013. doi: 10.1111/his.14615. Epub 2022
Mar  3.

PRAME immunoexpression in benign fibroblasts - a diagnostic pitfall.

Wakefield C(1), Heffron CCBB(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathology, Cork University Hospital, Wilton, Cork City, Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/his.14615
PMID: 35103337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 Jul 1;44(7):488-492. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002143.  Epub 2022 Feb 2.

Immunohistochemistry for Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma in the 
Differential Diagnosis of Melanocytic Lesions of the Nail Apparatus.

Krajisnik A(1), Gharavi NM(1)(2), Faries MB(3)(4), Balzer BL(1), Frishberg 
DP(1), Martelli M(5), Shon W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.
(2)Department of Dermatology.
(3)Department of Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA.
(4)The Angeles Clinic & Research Institute, Los Angeles, CA; and.
(5)Department of Pathology, Rush Foundation Hospital, Meridian, MS.

Nail unit melanocytic lesions present a unique set of diagnostic challenges 
because of the unfamiliarity with clinical assessment and the lack of experience 
with histologic examination. Because the first surgical specimen received in the 
pathology laboratory is typically small, sometimes suboptimal biopsy, the 
distinction between melanoma and its histologic mimics can be difficult. For 
this reason, there has been a continued interest in the development of ancillary 
markers that may assist in the differential diagnosis of nail unit melanocytic 
lesions. Upregulation of preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) 
has been reported to be a common event in melanomas, and PRAME 
immunohistochemistry has been shown to be helpful in evaluating various 
melanocytic neoplasms. In this study, we evaluated PRAME protein expression in a 
series of nail unit melanocytic lesions. Twenty-five nail unit melanomas 
(including small biopsy and amputation specimens) and 32 control benign 
melanocytic lesions were retrospectively retrieved. Nuclear PRAME staining was 
scored as percentage and intensity labeling. All melanoma cases showed the 
nuclear expression of PRAME, which was usually diffuse and strong. In specimens 
where the neoplastic cells are limited in number, the staining was restricted to 
the tumor cells, corresponding to the initial H&E impression. All control cases 
were negative for PRAME expression. PRAME expression is helpful in 
distinguishing between melanomas and other nail unit melanocytic lesions. This 
antibody also proved to be diagnostically valuable in detecting melanoma cells 
in small specimens with minimal disease.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002143
PMID: 35120028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.B.F. serves as an Advisory Board Member in 
Novartis, Merck, Array Bioscience, Pulse Bioscience, and Bristol Myers Squibb. 
The remaining authors declare no conflicts of interest.


414. Blood. 2022 Apr 28;139(17):2706-2711. doi: 10.1182/blood.2021014648.

Donor-derived multiple leukemia antigen-specific T-cell therapy to prevent 
relapse after transplant in patients with ALL.

Naik S(1), Vasileiou S(1), Tzannou I(1), Kuvalekar M(1), Watanabe A(1), 
Robertson C(1), Lapteva N(1), Tao W(1), Wu M(1), Grilley B(1), Carrum G(1), 
Kamble RT(1), Hill L(1), Krance RA(1), Martinez C(1), Tewari P(1), Omer B(1), 
Gottschalk S(1), Heslop HE(1), Brenner MK(1), Rooney CM(1), Vera JF(1), Leen 
AM(1), Lulla PD(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas 
Children's Hospital and Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX.

Comment in
    Blood. 2022 Apr 28;139(17):2580-2581.

Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) is a curative option for patients with 
high-risk acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL), but relapse remains a major cause 
of treatment failure. To prevent disease relapse, we prepared and infused 
donor-derived multiple leukemia antigen-specific T cells (mLSTs) targeting 
PRAME, WT1, and survivin, which are leukemia-associated antigens frequently 
expressed in B- and T-ALL. Our goal was to maximize the graft-versus-leukemia 
effect while minimizing the risk of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). We 
administered mLSTs (dose range, 0.5 × 107 to 2 × 107 cells per square meter) to 
11 patients with ALL (8 pediatric, 3 adult), and observed no dose-limiting 
toxicity, acute GVHD or cytokine release syndrome. Six of 8 evaluable patients 
remained in long-term complete remission (median: 46.5 months; range, 9-51). In 
these individuals we detected an increased frequency of tumor-reactive T cells 
shortly after infusion, with activity against both targeted and nontargeted, 
known tumor-associated antigens, indicative of in vivo antigen spreading. By 
contrast, this in vivo amplification was absent in the 2 patients who 
experienced relapse. In summary, infusion of donor-derived mLSTs after 
allogeneic HSCT is feasible and safe and may contribute to disease control, as 
evidenced by in vivo tumor-directed T-cell expansion. Thus, this approach 
represents a promising strategy for preventing relapse in patients with ALL.

© 2022 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood.2021014648
PMCID: PMC9053698
PMID: 35134127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Mol Cell Biochem. 2022 May;477(5):1361-1370. doi:
10.1007/s11010-022-04379-3.  Epub 2022 Feb 10.

Differential gene expression and network analysis in head and neck squamous cell 
carcinoma.

Habib I(1), Anjum F(2), Mohammad T(3), Sulaimani MN(3), Shafie A(2), Almehmadi 
M(2), Yadav DK(4), Sohal SS(5), Hassan MI(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi, 
110025, India.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory Sciences, College of Applied Medical 
Sciences, Taif University, P.O. Box 11099, Taif, 21944, Saudi Arabia.
(3)Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Basic Sciences, Jamia Millia 
Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi, 110025, India.
(4)College of Pharmacy, Gachon University of Medicine and Science, Hambakmoeiro, 
Yeonsu-gu, Incheon City, 21924, South Korea. dharmendra30oct@gmail.com.
(5)Respiratory Translational Research Group, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
School of Health Sciences, College of Health and Medicine, University of 
Tasmania, Launceston, Australia.
(6)Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Basic Sciences, Jamia Millia 
Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi, 110025, India. mihassan@jmi.ac.in.

Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a prevalent malignancy with a 
poor prognosis, whose biomarkers have not been studied in great detail. We have 
collected genomic data of HNSCC patients from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and 
analyzed them to get deeper insights into the gene expression pattern. 
Initially, 793 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were categorized, and their 
enrichment analysis was performed. Later, a protein-protein interaction network 
for the DEGs was constructed using the STRING plugin in Cytoscape to study their 
interactions. A set of 10 hub genes was selected based on Maximal Clique 
Centrality score, and later their survival analysis was studied. The elucidated 
set of 10 genes, i.e., PRAME, MAGEC2, MAGEA12, LHX1, MAGEA3, CSAG1, MAGEA6, 
LCE6A, LCE2D, LCE2C, referred to as potential candidates to be explored as HNSCC 
biomarkers. The Kaplan-Meier overall survival of the selected genes suggested 
that the alterations in the candidate genes were linked to the decreased 
survival of the HNSCC patients. Altogether, the results of this study signify 
that the genomic alterations and differential expression of the selected genes 
can be explored in therapeutic interpolations of HNSCC, exploiting early 
diagnosis and target-propelled therapy.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-022-04379-3
PMID: 35142951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Jun;49(6):510-514. doi: 10.1111/cup.14212. Epub 2022
Feb  21.

Use of PRAME immunostaining to distinguish early melanoma in situ from benign 
pigmented conditions.

Olds H(1), Utz S(1), Abrams J(2), Terrano D(3), Mehregan D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Oncology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, USA.
(3)Bethesda Dermatopathology Laboratory, Silver Spring, Maryland, USA.

BACKGROUND: PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is an antigen 
that shows marked overexpression in melanoma compared to normal skin 
melanocytes. PRAME immunohistochemistry has proven effective in distinguishing 
melanocytic nevi from melanoma, but it is unclear if it may be used to 
distinguish melanoma in situ from other benign pigmented lesions. In particular, 
differentiating from melanocytic hyperplasia in sun-damaged skin is sometimes 
clinically and histopathologically challenging. We hypothesized that PRAME 
staining of solar lentigo, sun-damaged skin, and melanoma in situ would aid in 
setting a threshold of positivity that could be useful in evaluating such 
conditions.
METHODS: We collected and stained typical examples of solar lentigo, melanoma in 
situ, and non-lesional sun-damaged skin by PRAME immunohistochemistry to assess 
a potential cutoff of PRAME positivity.
RESULTS: Solar lentigo and non-lesional sun-damaged skin had 10 or fewer 
PRAME-positive cells per millimeter (mean 1.2), on the other hand melanoma in 
situ had at least 16 (mean 75.1).
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME immunostaining appears sensitive and specific in the current 
series. This could be clinically useful for distinguishing melanoma in situ from 
benign melanocytic hyperplasia in sun-damaged skin. However, further studies are 
required to determine if 10 cells per millimeter is an acceptable threshold of 
positivity.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14212
PMID: 35146798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 May 1;44(5):e54-e56. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002133.

Cutaneous Neurocristic Hamartoma Mimicking Basal Cell Carcinoma in a Patient 
With Xeroderma Pigmentosum.

Finberg A(1), Martin S(2), Gradecki S(3), Zlotoff B(2), Raghavan SS(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville, VA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA; and.
(3)Department of Dermatopathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA.

Neurocristic hamartomas (NCH) of cutaneous origin are especially rare congenital 
or acquired neoplasms that often arise through aberrant embryologic development 
of pluripotent neural crest cells. Clinically, they often present as pigmented 
macules or papules on the scalp with associated alopecia. NCHs are characterized 
histopathologically by dermal melanocytic, fibroblastic, and neurosustentacular 
components. Correct identification of this etiology is critical because of 
potential for malignant transformation, particularly in acquired NCHs. Our 
patient was a 6-year-old girl with xeroderma pigmentosum and confirmed XPC 
mutation followed in our dermatology clinic since the age of 3. She had a 
history of multiple actinic keratoses but no prior skin cancers. A 4-mm 
homogenous pink papule on the left frontal scalp concerning for basal cell 
carcinoma was noted during routine skin examination. After a 3-month course of 3 
times weekly topical imiquimod, the lesion had grown to a 6 mm diameter. The 
patient was then referred to plastic surgery for definitive excision. 
Histologically, the lesion showed a well-circumscribed proliferation of spindle 
cells with a trabecular and nested growth pattern. Perivascular pseudorosettes 
were identified, as were areas that resembled well-differentiated neural tissue. 
The spindle cells diffusely expressed S100 protein, SOX10, and CD34, with patchy 
expression of Melan-A and HMB-45. PRAME was negative, and p16 was retained. 
Array comparative genomic hybridization was performed, and no clinically 
significant copy number or single nucleotide variants were detected. To the best 
of our knowledge, this is the first documented case in the literature of a 
cutaneous neurocristic hamartoma arising in a patient with xeroderma 
pigmentosum.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002133
PMID: 35170472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


418. Mod Pathol. 2022 Aug;35(8):1110-1120. doi: 10.1038/s41379-022-01026-6. Epub
2022  Feb 19.

Towards diagnostic criteria for malignant deep penetrating melanocytic tumors 
using single nucleotide polymorphism array and next-generation sequencing.

Ebbelaar CF(1)(2), Schrader AMR(3), van Dijk M(1), Meijers RWJ(1), de Leng 
WWJ(1), Bloem LT(2), Jansen AML(#)(1), Blokx WAM(#)(4); MOLecular Evaluation of 
Melanocytic Ambiguous Tumors (MOLEMAT) investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Division of Laboratories, Pharmacy and Biomedical 
Genetics, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute 
for Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pathology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Department of Pathology, Division of Laboratories, Pharmacy and Biomedical 
Genetics, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
W.A.M.Blokx@umcutrecht.nl.
(#)Contributed equally

Cutaneous deep penetrating melanocytic neoplasms frequently simulate melanoma 
and might occasionally progress to metastatic melanoma. Distinguishing deep 
penetrating nevi (DPN) and deep penetrating melanocytomas (DPM) from malignant 
deep penetrating tumors (MDPT) is difficult based on histopathology alone, and 
diagnostic criteria for MDPT are currently lacking. Using a molecular workup, we 
aimed to provide readily available diagnostic tools for classification of deep 
penetrating tumors. We used clinical follow-up and Single Nucleotide 
Polymorphism (SNP) array for tumor classification of 20 deep penetrating 
neoplasms to identify associations with histopathological, immunohistochemistry, 
and NGS findings. Ten neoplasms were classified as MDPT, four as DPM, and six as 
DPN. Two MDPT showed metastases. The following parameters were statistically 
significantly associated with MDPT: severe nuclear atypia (risk ratio [RR] 2.9, 
p < 0.05), absence of a nevus component (RR 10.0, p = 0.04), positive PRAME 
expression (RR 9.0, p = 0.02), complete loss of p16 expression (RR 3.5, 
p = 0.003), TERT-p and APC mutations (RR 11.0, p = 0.01 and RR 2.7, p = 0.002, 
respectively), and ≥1 additional pathogenic mutation (RR 9.0, p = 0.02). Ki-67 
expression ≥ 5% was not significantly associated with MDPTs, although it was <5% 
in all DPNs. Three MDPT did not show nuclear β-catenin expression despite having 
a CTNNB1 (n = 2) or an APC mutation (n = 1). Our findings suggest that complete 
loss of p16 and positive PRAME expression, a driver mutation in APC, ≥ 1 
additional pathogenic mutation, especially in TERT-p, support an MDPT diagnosis 
in deep penetrating neoplasms. Besides severe nuclear atypia and possibly severe 
inflammation, we did not identify specific histopathological criteria for 
malignancy. Non-aberrant nuclear β-catenin expression might not exclude a deep 
penetrating signature in MDPT.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to United States & Canadian 
Academy of Pathology.

DOI: 10.1038/s41379-022-01026-6
PMID: 35184152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 Jul 1;44(7):499-502. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002156.  Epub 2022 Feb 25.

Preferentially Expressed Nuclear Antigen in Melanoma Expression in Melanocytic 
Activation (Melanotic Macule) of the Nail Unit. A Potential Diagnostic Pitfall? 
A Study of 3 Cases.

Perrin C(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire Central D'Anatomie Pathologique, Hôpital L. Pasteur, University 
of Nice, Nail's Dermatology Consultations, Nice, Cannes, France.

Recent studies have argued that melanocyte preferentially expressed nuclear 
antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a sensitive and specific immunohistochemical 
marker of melanoma, including acral melanoma. In addition, loss of p16 
expression has recently been suggested to have diagnostic utility in acral 
melanocytic tumors. The purpose of this study was to report PRAME expression in 
3 cases of melanocytic activation (MAN). There were 2 men and 1 woman ranging in 
age at diagnosis from 46 years to 78 years (mean 61, 6 years). All cases 
involved a single digit. One lesion was in the fingernail (fifth finger), 
whereas the remaining 2 lesions were in the toenails (hallux). All the patient 
presented with a longitudinal melanonychia. The width of the lesions varied from 
3 mm (2 cases) to 4 mm (1 case). The duration of the lesions before diagnosis 
varied from 12 to 24 months. Distinction of MAN from melanoma in situ is not 
always easy. Some morphological misleading features are illustrated in this 
study: (1) the suprabasal location of matrix melanocytes with long and thick 
dendrites within the 2-4 germinative cell layers; (2) the microconfluence of 2 
melanocytes and rare melanocytes with a relatively large nucleus, however in a 
general context of melanocyte scarcity; and (3) the occasional nonspecific 
nuclear microphtalmia-associated transcription factor (MITF) staining of 
keratogeneous cells. Such staining could suggest a pagetoid spread of 
melanocytes in the keratogenous zone. PRAME antibody revealed a strong and 
diffuse staining in all cases. In addition, all cases were p16 negative. In this 
study, the melanocyte count inferior to 9 melanocytes/mm and the lack of nuclear 
atypia or confluence of melanocytes permitted a confident diagnosis of MAN. 
Limitations of our study lie largely in the small number of cases. Despite this, 
the expression of PRAME in some MAN seems to hamper its diagnostic value in 
differentiating benign from malignant lesion.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002156
PMID: 35220324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflicts of interest


420. Transfus Med Hemother. 2021 Jul 7;49(1):44-61. doi: 10.1159/000516886. 
eCollection 2022 Feb.

Interferon Gamma Secretion of Adaptive and Innate Immune Cells as a Parameter to 
Describe Leukaemia-Derived Dendritic-Cell-Mediated Immune Responses in Acute 
Myeloid Leukaemia in vitro.

Klauer LK(1), Schutti O(1), Ugur S(1), Doraneh-Gard F(1), Amberger DC(1), Rogers 
N(1), Krämer D(2), Rank A(3), Schmid C(3), Eiz-Vesper B(4), Schmetzer HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine III, University Hospital of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Haematology and Oncology, St.-Josefs-Hospital, Hagen, Germany.
(3)Department of Haematology and Oncology, University Hospital of Augsburg, 
Augsburg, Germany.
(4)Institute for Transfusion Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, 
Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Myeloid leukaemic blasts can be converted into leukaemia-derived 
dendritic cells (DCleu), characterised by the simultaneous expression of 
dendritic- and leukaemia-associated antigens, which have the competence to prime 
and enhance (leukaemia-specific) immune responses with the whole leukaemic 
antigen repertoire. To display and further specify dendritic cell (DC)- and 
DCleu-mediated immune responses, we analysed the interferon gamma (IFNy) 
secretion of innate and adaptive immune cells.
METHODS: DC/DCleu were generated from leukaemic whole blood (WB) with 
(blast)modulatory Kit-I (granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor 
[GM-CSF] + Picibanil [OK-432]) and Kit-M (GM-CSF + prostaglandin E1) and were 
used to stimulate T cell-enriched immunoreactive cells. Initiated anti-leukaemic 
cytotoxicity was investigated with a cytotoxicity fluorolysis assay. Initiated 
IFNy secretion of T, NK, CIK, and iNKT cells was investigated with a cytokine 
secretion assay (CSA). IFNy positivity was additionally evaluated with an 
intracellular cytokine assay (ICA). Recent activation of leukaemia-specific 
cells was verified through addition of leukaemia-associated antigens (LAA; WT-1 
and Prame).
RESULTS: We found Kit-I and Kit-M competent to generate mature DC and DCleu from 
leukaemic WB without induction of blast proliferation. Stimulation of 
immunoreactive cells with DC/DCleu regularly resulted in an increased 
anti-leukaemic cytotoxicity and increased IFNy secretion of T, NK, and CIK 
cells, pointing to the significant role of DC/DCleu in leukaemia-specific 
alongside anti-leukaemic reactions. Interestingly, an addition of LAA did not 
further increase IFNy secretion, suggesting an efficient activation of 
leukaemia-specific cells. Here, both the CSA and ICA yielded comparable 
frequencies of IFNy-positive cells. Remarkably, the anti-leukaemic cytotoxicity 
positively correlated with the IFNy secretion in TCD3+, TCD4+, TCD8+, and 
NKCD56+ cells.
CONCLUSION: Ultimately, the IFNy secretion of innate and adaptive immune cells 
appeared to be a suitable parameter to assess and monitor the efficacy of in 
vitro and potentially in vivo acute myeloid leukaemia immunotherapy. The CSA in 
this regard proved to be a convenient and reproducible technique to detect and 
phenotypically characterise IFNy-secreting cells. In respect to our studies on 
DC-based immunomodulation, we were able to display the potential of DC/DCleu to 
induce or improve leukaemia-specific and anti-leukaemic activity.

Copyright © 2021 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000516886
PMCID: PMC8832209
PMID: 35221867

Conflict of interest statement: Modiblast Pharma GmbH (Oberhaching, Germany) 
holds the European Patent 15 801 987.7-1118 and US Patent 15-517627 “Use of 
immunomodulatory effective compositions for the immunotherapeutic treatment of 
patients suffering from myeloid leukemias”, in which H.M.S. is involved.421. Blood Adv. 2022 Apr 26;6(8):2520-2534. doi:
10.1182/bloodadvances.2021006831.

Outcome of donor-derived TAA-T cell therapy in patients with high-risk or 
relapsed acute leukemia post allogeneic BMT.

Kinoshita H(1)(2)(3), Cooke KR(4), Grant M(5), Stanojevic M(1), Cruz 
CR(1)(6)(7), Keller M(1)(6), Fortiz MF(1), Hoq F(1), Lang H(1), Barrett AJ(7), 
Liang H(8), Tanna J(1), Zhang N(1), Shibli A(1), Datar A(1), Fulton K(1), 
Kukadiya D(1), Zhang A(6), Williams KM(9), Dave H(1)(3)(6), Dome JS(1)(3)(6), 
Jacobsohn D(1)(2)(6), Hanley PJ(1)(6), Jones RJ(4), Bollard CM(1)(2)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cancer and Immunology Research, Children's National Research 
Institute, Children's National Hospital, Washington, DC.
(2)Division of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC.
(3)Division of Oncology, Children's National Hospital, Washington, DC.
(4)Department of Oncology, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns 
Hopkins, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD.
(5)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA.
(6)Department of Pediatrics, The George Washington University School of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Washington, DC.
(7)Stem Cell Transplantation and Cell Therapy Program, George Washington Cancer 
Center, Washington, DC.
(8)Department of Statistics, The George Washington University, Washington, DC; 
and.
(9)Department of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Aflac Cancer & Blood Disorders 
Center, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and Emory University School of 
Medicine, Atlanta, GA.

Patients with hematologic malignancies relapsing after allogeneic blood or 
marrow transplantation (BMT) have limited response to conventional salvage 
therapies, with an expected 1-year overall survival (OS) of <20%. We evaluated 
the safety and clinical outcomes following administration of a novel T-cell 
therapeutic targeting 3 tumor-associated antigens (TAA-T) in patients with acute 
leukemia who relapsed or were at high risk of relapse after allogeneic BMT. 
Lymphocytes obtained from the BMT donor were manufactured to target TAAs WT1, 
PRAME, and survivin, which are over-expressed and immunogenic in most 
hematologic malignancies. Patients received TAA-T infusions at doses of 0.5 to 4 
× 107/m2. Twenty-three BMT recipients with relapsed/refractory (n = 11) and/or 
high-risk (n = 12) acute myeloid leukemia (n = 20) and acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (n = 3) were infused posttransplant. No patient developed 
cytokine-release syndrome or neurotoxicity, and only 1 patient developed grade 3 
graft-versus-host disease. Of the patients who relapsed post-BMT and received 
bridging therapy, the majority (n = 9/11) achieved complete hematologic 
remission before receiving TAA-T. Relapsed patients exhibited a 1-year OS of 36% 
and 1-year leukemia-free survival of 27.3% post-TAA-T. The poorest prognosis 
patients (relapsed <6 months after transplant) exhibited a 1-year OS of 42.8% 
postrelapse (n = 7). Median survival was not reached for high-risk patients who 
received preemptive TAA-T posttransplant (n = 12). Although as a phase 1 study, 
concomitant antileukemic therapy was allowed, TAA-T were safe and well 
tolerated, and sustained remissions in high-risk and relapsed patients were 
observed. Moreover, adoptively transferred TAA-T detected by T-cell receptor V-β 
sequencing persisted up to at least 1 year postinfusion. This trial was 
registered at clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT02203903.

© 2022 by The American Society of Hematology. Licensed under Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), 
permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2021006831
PMCID: PMC9043933
PMID: 35244681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Am J Surg Pathol. 2022 May 1;46(5):579-590. doi:
10.1097/PAS.0000000000001878.

Comparative Analysis of PRAME Expression in 127 Acral and Nail Melanocytic 
Lesions.

Santandrea G(1)(2), Valli R(1), Zanetti E(1), Ragazzi M(1), Pampena R(3), Longo 
C(3)(4), Lai M(3)(4), Piana S(1), Cesinaro AM(5).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Unit.
(2)Clinical and Experimental Medicine PhD Program.
(3)Skin Cancer Center, Azienda USL-IRCCS di Reggio Emilia, Reggio Emilia.
(4)Department of Dermatology, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia.
(5)Department of Pathological Anatomy, Modena University Hospital, Modena, 
Italy.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma), a cancer testis antigen 
expressed in low levels in gonadal, endometrial, and adrenal gland tissues, has 
been recently considered a valuable tool in the differential diagnosis between 
benign and malignant melanocytic lesions. The aim of the current study is to 
perform PRAME immunostaining on a large series of benign and malignant acral 
lesions to evaluate the reproducibility of data reported in the literature and 
to validate PRAME as an affordable tool in the differential diagnosis between 
benign and malignant acral melanocytic tumors. Immunohistochemical analysis for 
PRAME was performed in 127 benign and malignant acral and nail melanocytic 
lesions. To better correlate PRAME expression with the nature (benign vs. 
malignant) of the lesions, we categorized PRAME tumor cells percentage 
positivity and intensity in a cumulative score obtained by adding the quartile 
of positive tumor cells (0, 1+, 2+, 3+, 4+) to PRAME expression intensity in 
tumor cells (0, 1+, 2+, 3+). Adopting an arbitrary PRAME expression score of < 5 
versus ≥5 resulted in a correct identification of 82.5% of benign and 87.1% of 
malignant lesions. PRAME immunohistochemistry demonstrated good sensitivity and 
specificity in the diagnosis of acral melanocytic lesions, however, in line with 
the previous literature, we identified a subset of challenging cases such as 
acral Spitz nevi, in situ melanomas, and small, thin, invasive melanomas in 
which PRAME did not correlate with morphologic features. This suggests that 
PRAME can be a valid tool to be incorporated in a diagnostic clinicopathologic 
algorithm, subject to morphologic characteristics.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001878
PMID: 35275883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest and Source of Funding: The 
authors have disclosed that they have no significant relationships with, or 
financial interest in, any commercial companies pertaining to this article.


423. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Jul;49(7):610-617. doi: 10.1111/cup.14226. Epub 2022
Mar  28.

PRAME expression in melanocytic lesions of the nail.

Parra O(1), Linos K(1)(2), Li Z(3), Yan S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical 
Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.
(2)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Data Science, Geisel Scool of Medicine at Dartmouth, 
Hanover, New Hampshire, USA.

BACKGROUND: Subungual melanoma can be diagnostically challenging. We evaluated 
the potential of PReferentially expressed Antigen for MElanoma (PRAME) 
immunoreactivity for differentiating benign from malignant nail melanocytic 
lesions.
METHODS: Sixty cases were identified (10 invasive melanomas, 8 melanomas in 
situ, 14 nevi, 12 cases of lentigo, and 16 of melanocytic activation). 
Percentage of PRAME-positive melanocytes was evaluated as follows: 0 no 
staining, 1+ 1%-25%, 2+ 26%-50%, 3+ 51%-75%, and 4+ >75%. A combined score of 
both percentage and intensity was also evaluated.
RESULTS: The difference in PRAME expression between malignant and benign lesions 
was statistically significant (p < 0.0001). The degree of PRAME expression 
significantly correlated with patients' age and clinical size. When based on 
percentage score, 61.1% of melanomas showed a 4+ score, 16.7% showed a 3+ score, 
11.1% showed a 1+ score, and 11.1% was negative; 69.0% of the benign lesions was 
negative, 23.8% showed a 1+ score, 4.8% showed a 2+ score, and 2.4% showed a 4+ 
score. When the cutoff value for malignancy decreased from 4+ to 3+, the 
sensitivity increased from 61.1% to 77.8%, while specificity remained 97.6%. 
Combined score results were similar.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME is a relatively sensitive and highly specific marker in 
differentiating benign from malignant nail melanocytic lesions. However, 
correlation with morphology is imperative.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14226
PMID: 35294053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. J Pathol Clin Res. 2022 May;8(3):294-304. doi: 10.1002/cjp2.264. Epub 2022
Mar  16.

PRAME protein expression in DICER1-related tumours.

Thorner PS(1), Chong AS(2)(3)(4), Nadaf J(2)(3), Benlimame N(5), Marrano P(6), 
Chami R(1)(6), Fu L(7), Foulkes WD(2)(3)(4)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Cancer Axis, Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, Jewish General 
Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)Cancer Research Program, Research Institute of the McGill University Health 
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Research Pathology Facility, Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Division of Pathology, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(7)Department of Pathology, McGill University Health Centre, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(8)Gerald Bronfman Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.

Erratum in
    J Pathol Clin Res. 2022 Nov;8(6):579-581.

DICER1 syndrome is an autosomal dominant tumour predisposition syndrome usually 
affecting persons under 30 years of age. Many of the associated benign and 
malignant lesions occur almost exclusively in DICER1 syndrome. One such tumour, 
pituitary blastoma (pitB), overexpresses PRAME 500x above control levels. PRAME 
(PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is expressed in malignancies that 
are not DICER1-related (e.g. melanoma). To address whether PRAME expression is 
part of the DICER1 phenotype, or simply a feature of pitB, a series of 75 
DICER1-mutated specimens and 33 non-mutated specimens was surveyed using 
immunohistochemistry for PRAME, together with EZH2, which complexes with PRAME. 
In DICER1-mutated specimens, positive staining for PRAME was only seen in 
malignant tumours; 7 of 11 histological types and 34/62 individual tumours were 
positive, while non-tumourous lesions were always negative. Pleuropulmonary 
blastoma (PPB) showed a continuum in staining, with type I lesions being PRAME 
negative (n = 7) but all type II and type III lesions PRAME positive (n = 7). 
Similarly, cystic nephroma (CN) was negative (n = 8), with anaplastic sarcoma of 
the kidney being positive (n = 2). However, one atypical CN with mesenchymal 
cell proliferation was PRAME-positive. Embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) with 
DICER1 pathogenic variants (PVs) was positive for PRAME (5/6), but the same 
tumour type without DICER1 PVs was also positive (9/15). Staining for EZH2 
corresponded to that seen with PRAME, validating the latter. This study leads us 
to conclude that (1) PRAME expression occurs in two-thirds of DICER1-related 
malignancies; (2) PRAME may be a marker for the progression that certain 
DICER1-related lesions are thought to undergo, such as PPB and CN; and (3) PRAME 
expression in some tumours, such as RMS, appears to be an intrinsic feature of 
the tumour, rather than specifically related to DICER1 PVs. Therapy directed 
against PRAME may offer novel treatment options in patients with the DICER1 
syndrome.

© 2022 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology: Clinical Research published by The 
Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland & John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cjp2.264
PMCID: PMC8977278
PMID: 35297207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Genes (Basel). 2022 Mar 19;13(3):545. doi: 10.3390/genes13030545.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) and Human Malignant 
Melanoma: A Retrospective Study.

Cazzato G(1), Mangialardi K(1), Falcicchio G(2), Colagrande A(1), Ingravallo 
G(1), Arezzo F(2), Giliberti G(1), Trilli I(3), Loizzi V(2), Lettini T(1), 
Scarcella S(1), Annese T(4)(5), Parente P(6), Lupo C(7), Casatta N(7), Maiorano 
E(1), Cormio G(2), Resta L(1), Ribatti D(5).

Author information:
(1)Section of Pathology, Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation 
(DETO), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.
(2)Section of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Department of Biomedical Sciences and 
Human Oncology (DIMO), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.
(3)Odontostomatologic Clinic, Department of Innovative Technologies in Medicine 
and Dentistry, University of Chieti "G. d'Annunzio", 66100 Chieti, Italy.
(4)Department of Medicine and Surgery, LUM University, 70124 Casamassima, Italy.
(5)Section of Human Anatomy and Histology, Department of Basic Medical Sciences, 
Neurosciences and Sensory Organs, University of Bari Medical School, 70124 Bari, 
Italy.
(6)Pathology Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Casa Sollievo della Sofferenza, 71013 San 
Giovanni Rotondo, Italy.
(7)Innovation Department, Diapath S.p.A, Via Savoldini n.71, 24057 Martinengo, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer 
testis antigen (CTA) identified in 1997 through analysis of the specificity of 
tumor-reactive T-cell clones derived from a patient with metastatic cutaneous 
melanoma. Although at first it seemed even more specific, various studies have 
shown that PRAME can also be expressed in the context of atypical lesions that 
do not correspond solely to the definition of malignant melanoma.
METHODS: A systematic review of English articles was conducted following the 
Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 
guidelines.
RESULTS: 126 records were identified in the literature search, of which 9 were 
duplicates. After screening for eligibility and inclusion criteria, 53 
publications were included.
CONCLUSIONS: The advent of a new marker such as PRAME is surely a step forward 
not only in the diagnostic approach, but also in the immunotherapeutic approach 
to MM. However, various studies have shown that PRAME can also be expressed in 
the context of atypical lesions apart from MM and, for this reason, the 
diagnostic sensitivity and specificity (hence accuracy) are clearly lower. 
Further studies with larger case series will be necessary to understand better 
what possibilities are offered in terms of diagnostic reliability by PRAME.

DOI: 10.3390/genes13030545
PMCID: PMC8951616
PMID: 35328098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


426. Diagnostics (Basel). 2022 Mar 6;12(3):646. doi: 10.3390/diagnostics12030646.

PRAME Immunocytochemistry for the Diagnosis of Melanoma Metastases in 
Cytological Samples.

Ronchi A(1), Zito Marino F(1), Moscarella E(2), Brancaccio G(2), Argenziano 
G(2), Troiani T(3), Napolitano S(3), Franco R(1), Cozzolino I(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Unit, Department of Mental and Physical Health and Preventive 
Medicine, Università degli Studi della Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Via Luciano 
Armanni 5, 80100 Naples, Italy.
(2)Dermatology Unit, Department of Mental and Physical Health and Preventive 
Medicine, Università degli Studi della Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Via Luciano 
Armanni 5, 80100 Naples, Italy.
(3)Oncology Unit, Department of Precision Medicine, Università degli Studi della 
Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", Via Luciano Armanni 5, 80100 Naples, Italy.

(1) Background: Fine-needle aspiration cytology is often used for the 
pre-operative diagnosis of melanoma metastases. The diagnosis may not be 
confidently established based on morphology alone, and immunocytochemistry is 
mandatory. The choice of the most advantageous immunocytochemical antibodies is 
critical, as the sample may be scant, and the presence of pigmented histiocytes 
may be confounding. However, the diagnostic performance of melanocytic markers 
in this setting is poorly investigated. Moreover, PRAME (preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma) recently emerged as a novel marker for the 
diagnosis of melanoma. The current work aimed to evaluate the sensitivity and 
specificity of PRAME for the diagnosis of melanoma metastases in cytological 
samples, compared to other melanocytic markers. (2) Methods: PRAME, S100, 
Melan-A, HMB45 and SOX10 were tested on cell block sections of 48 cases of 
melanoma metastases diagnosed from cytological samples, and 20 cases of reactive 
lymphadenopathy. (3) Results: S100 and SOX10 showed the highest sensitivity 
(100%), while the sensitivity of PRAME was 85.4%. PRAME, Melan-A, SOX10 and 
HMB45 showed a specificity of 100%, while the specificity of S100 was lower 
(85%), as it marked some histiocytes. (4) Conclusion: PRAME immunocytochemistry 
is highly specific for the diagnosis of melanoma metastasis from a cytological 
sample, but is less sensitive compared with other melanocytic markers.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics12030646
PMCID: PMC8947731
PMID: 35328198

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


427. J Clin Invest. 2022 May 16;132(10):e145343. doi: 10.1172/JCI145343.

Tumor-associated antigen PRAME exhibits dualistic functions that are targetable 
in diffuse large B cell lymphoma.

Takata K(1)(2), Chong LC(1), Ennishi D(1), Aoki T(1), Li MY(1), Thakur A(3)(4), 
Healy S(1), Viganò E(1), Dao T(5), Kwon D(6), Duns G(1), Nielsen JS(7), 
Ben-Neriah S(1), Tse E(1), Hung SS(1), Boyle M(1), Mun SS(5), Bourne CM(5), 
Woolcock B(1), Telenius A(1), Kishida M(1), Rai S(1), Zhang AW(6), Bashashati 
A(6), Saberi S(6), D'Antonio G(7), Nelson BH(7), Shah SP(6)(8), Hoodless 
PA(3)(4), Melnick AM(9), Gascoyne RD(1), Connors JM(1), Scheinberg DA(5), 
Béguelin W(9), Scott DW(1), Steidl C(1)(10).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Lymphoid Cancer, British Columbia Cancer, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(2)Division of Molecular and Cellular Pathology, Niigata University Graduate 
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan.
(3)Department of Medical Genetics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Terry Fox Laboratory, British Columbia Cancer, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada.
(5)Molecular Pharmacology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, New York, USA.
(6)Department of Molecular Oncology and.
(7)Trev and Joyce Deeley Research Centre, British Columbia Cancer, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(8)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, New York, USA.
(9)Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Weill 
Cornell Medical College, New York, New York, USA.
(10)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

Comment in
    J Clin Invest. 2022 Jul 15;132(14):
    J Clin Invest. 2022 Jul 15;132(14):

PRAME is a prominent member of the cancer testis antigen family of proteins, 
which triggers autologous T cell-mediated immune responses. Integrative genomic 
analysis in diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) uncovered recurrent and highly 
focal deletions of 22q11.22, including the PRAME gene, which were associated 
with poor outcome. PRAME-deleted tumors showed cytotoxic T cell immune escape 
and were associated with cold tumor microenvironments. In addition, PRAME 
downmodulation was strongly associated with somatic EZH2 Y641 mutations in 
DLBCL. In turn, PRC2-regulated genes were repressed in isogenic PRAME-KO 
lymphoma cell lines, and PRAME was found to directly interact with EZH2 as a 
negative regulator. EZH2 inhibition with EPZ-6438 abrogated these extrinsic and 
intrinsic effects, leading to PRAME expression and microenvironment restoration 
in vivo. Our data highlight multiple functions of PRAME during lymphomagenesis 
and provide a preclinical rationale for synergistic therapies combining 
epigenetic reprogramming with PRAME-targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI145343
PMCID: PMC9106353
PMID: 35380993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: CS has performed 
consultancy for Seattle Genetics, Curis Inc., Roche, AbbVie, Juno Therapeutics, 
and Bayer and has received research funding from Bristol Myers Squibb and 
Trillium Therapeutics Inc. DAS is a consultant to Eureka Therapeutics. Memorial 
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center has filed for patent protection on behalf of DAS 
for materials discussed in the paper (US20180148503A1).


428. Exp Mol Pathol. 2022 Jun;126:104761. doi: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2022.104761. Epub
2022  Apr 4.

Differential expression of preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) 
in testicular germ cell tumors - A comparative study with SOX17.

Zhou Y(1), Rothrock A(1), Murugan P(1), Li F(1), Bu L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA; Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, 
Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. Electronic address: bu.lihong@mayo.edu.

The accurate identification of different components in testicular germ cell 
tumors (GCT) is essential for tailoring treatment and informing the clinical 
prognosis. PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma), a member in the 
family of cancer testis antigens, plays critical roles in regulating 
pluripotency and suppressing somatic/germ cell differentiation in seminomas 
(SEM). To investigate the potential diagnostic value of PRAME in testicular GCT, 
here we comparatively examined the expression patterns of PRAME and SOX17 by 
immunohistochemistry in both pure and mixed GCT. Tissue microarrays constructed 
from 66 pure or mixed GCT were examined, including 25 seminomas (13 pure and 12 
mixed), 35 embryonal carcinomas (EC; 7 pure and 28 mixed), 23 teratomas (TER; 10 
pure and 13 mixed), 15 yolk sac tumors (YST; 1 pure and 14 mixed), and 5 
choriocarcinomas (CC; 1 pure and 4 mixed), with 11 germ cell neoplasia in situ 
(GCNIS) and 6 normal testicular tissue as controls. The expression levels of 
PRAME or SOX17 were evaluated by a scoring system counting for intensity and 
extent of staining. PRAME nuclear expression was present in 92% (23/25) of SEM, 
including all 13 pure SEM, and 10 out of 12 seminomatous component of mixed GCT. 
In contrast, all EC and TER were completely negative for PRAME, and focal 
expression was demonstrated in 33.3% of YST and 20% of CC. As for SOX17, 96% of 
SEM and 73% of YST stained positively, whereas EC and CC were negative. Focal 
nuclear positivity was identified in the epithelial cell component of 17.4% 
(4/23) of TER. We found the sensitivity of PRAME to detect SEM to be comparable 
to SOX17, although SOX17 staining is more diffuse and stronger in the majority 
of cases. The specificity of PRAME for SEM appeared to be superior to that of 
SOX17 (92% versus 81%). In conclusion, PRAME is preferentially expressed in SEM 
or within the seminomatous component of mixed GCT with only focal variable 
expression in YST and CC, but shows no expression in EC and TER. These findings 
suggest that PRAME can be explored as a diagnostic marker for SEM.

Copyright © 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexmp.2022.104761
PMID: 35390309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Front Oncol. 2022 Mar 23;12:806501. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2022.806501.
eCollection  2022.

Case Report: Neuromyelitis Optica After Treatment of Uveal Melanoma With 
Nivolumab and Ipilimumab.

Khimani K(1), Patel SP(2), Whyte A(3), Al-Zubidi N(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, 
TX, United States.
(2)Department of Melanoma Medical Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, United States.
(3)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Section of Ophthalmology, The University 
of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, United States.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Blanton Eye Institute, Houston Methodist 
Hospital, Houston, TX, United States.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, United 
States.

The development of immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) has greatly improved 
survival of patients with advanced malignancies. ICIs can cause immune-related 
adverse effects (irAEs) involving any organ. Neurological irAEs are infrequent 
and have mostly been reported in patients with melanoma. We describe the case of 
a 57-year-old male with right eye uveal melanoma, gene expression profile (class 
2), and PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma) positivity, who 
received plaque brachytherapy with Iodine-125 for 4 days with subsequent 
adjuvant ICIs (immune checkpoint inhibitors), nivolumab and ipilimumab. 18 weeks 
after discontinuation of immunotherapy, the patient presented with acute onset 
of left-sided headaches, pain with eye movements, and vision loss. The patient 
was tested positive for serum anti-aquaporin-4 antibody (AQP4-Ab) and was 
diagnosed with neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD). Subsequently, he 
was treated with 5 days of intravenous methylprednisolone followed by an oral 
prednisone taper over 10 weeks, with improvement in symptoms. We report a unique 
case of neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) following treatment with 
ICIs. To our best knowledge, this is the third reported case in English 
literature of NMOSD following ICI therapy and the first reported case of NMOSD 
caused by ICI treatment in uveal melanoma.

Copyright © 2022 Khimani, Patel, Whyte and Al-Zubidi.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2022.806501
PMCID: PMC8984112
PMID: 35402220

Conflict of interest statement: Author SP received institutional clinical trial 
or research support from Bristol Myers Squibb, Foghorn Therapeutics, InxMed, 
Novartis, Provectus Biopharmaceuticals, Reata, TriSalus Life Sciences, is on the 
advisory board for Cardinal Health, Castle Biosciences, and TriSalus Life 
Sciences, and has provided consulting services for Advance Knowledge in 
Healthcare and Immunocore. The remaining authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


430. Ann Clin Lab Sci. 2022 Mar;52(2):185-195.

PRAME Is a Potential Carcinogenic Biomarker that Correlates with Patient 
Prognosis and Tumor Immunity Based on Pan-Cancer Analysis.

Zhao Q(1), Zhang Z(2), Wu Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Minimally Invasive Surgery, Shaoxing Second Hospital, Shaoxing, 
Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Shaoxing Second Hospital, Shaoxing, 
Zhejiang, China.
(3)Department of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Shaoxing Second Hospital, Shaoxing, 
Zhejiang, China moceng336@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to visualize the pan-cancer prognostic 
significance of PReferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) and 
investigate the relationship between PRAME expression and tumor immunity.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We explored the expression patterns and prognostic value 
of PRAME across multiple cancers using data from the Cancer Genome Atlas, 
Genotype-Tissue Expression, and Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia databases. 
Spearman's correlation test was used to evaluate correlations between PRAME 
expression and the tumor immune microenvironment, mutation indicators, and DNA 
methylation. Finally, the functions of PRAME and potential signaling pathway 
mechanisms were explored through Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA).
RESULTS: Pan-cancer survival analysis indicated that PRAME was widely 
up-regulated in most tumors, and its high expression was indicative of poor 
overall survival in different cancer types. In addition, PRAME expression levels 
were strongly linked to immune infiltration, immune score, immune checkpoint, 
immune neoantigens, tumor mutation burden, microsatellite instability, mismatch 
repair, and DNA methyltransferase in a variety of cancers. GSEA analysis 
revealed that PRAME was related to the regulation of numerous signaling pathways 
implicated in tumor immunity and tumorigenicity.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME has the potential to serve as a prognostic pan-cancer 
biomarker and is correlated with tumor immunity. Its use may help shed light on 
optimum cancer therapies.

© 2022 by the Association of Clinical Scientists, Inc.

PMID: 35414497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Oral Pathol Med. 2022 May;51(5):421-428. doi: 10.1111/jop.13300. Epub 2022
May  25.

Cancer testis antigen (PRAME) as an independent marker for survival in oral 
squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).

Haidari S(1), Tröltzsch M(1), Fliefel R(1)(2)(3), Jungbluth AA(4), Otto S(1)(3), 
Fegg F(1), Liokatis P(1), Ahmadi N(1), Eberl M(5), Probst FA(1), Knösel T(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and Facial Plastic Surgery, 
University Hospital, Ludwig-Maximilians-University (LMU), Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Alexandria-University, 
Alexandria, Egypt.
(3)Experimental Surgery and Regenerative Medicine (ExperiMed), LMU, Planegg, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC), New 
York City, New York, USA.
(5)Department of Sport and Health Sciences, Chair of Epidemiology, Technical 
University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
(6)Department of Pathology, LMU, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The objective was to assess the expression patterns of the cancer 
testis antigen PRAME, NY-ESO1, and SSX2 in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSSC) 
and to correlate the expression with clinical and histopathological parameters 
including progression-free survival analysis.
METHODS: The study variables of this retrospective cohort study (n = 83) 
included demographic data, histopathological data, and information on 
progression-free survival. PRAME expression patterns were rated based on 
immunohistochemistry on tissue microarrays (TMA). The survival rate was assessed 
by Kaplan-Meier method and Cox regression model. The primary predictor variable 
was defined as the expression of PRAME and the outcome variable was 
progression-free survival.
RESULTS: Analysis of progression-free survival using Kaplan-Meier method showed 
that patients with positive expression of PRAME had lower probabilities of 
progression-free survival (p < 0.001). According to the Cox regression model, 
the level of PRAME expression had a considerable and significant independent 
influence on progression-free survival (positive PRAME expression increasing the 
hazards for a negative outcome by 285% in our sample; HR = 3.85, 95% CI: 
1.45-10.2, p = 0.007). The expression of SSX2 (n = 1) and NY-ESO-1 (n = 5) in 
our samples was rare.
CONCLUSION: PRAME is expressed in OSCC and appears to be a suitable marker of 
progression-free survival, correlates with severe course, and may allow 
identification of high-risk patients with aggressive progression.

© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Oral Pathology & Medicine published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jop.13300
PMID: 35430758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Cancers (Basel). 2022 Apr 14;14(8):1998. doi: 10.3390/cancers14081998.

T-Cells Expressing a Highly Potent PRAME-Specific T-Cell Receptor in Combination 
with a Chimeric PD1-41BB Co-Stimulatory Receptor Show a Favorable Preclinical 
Safety Profile and Strong Anti-Tumor Reactivity.

Sailer N(1), Fetzer I(1), Salvermoser M(1), Braun M(1), Brechtefeld D(1), Krendl 
C(1), Geiger C(1), Mutze K(1), Noessner E(2), Schendel DJ(1)(3), Bürdek M(1), 
Wilde S(1), Sommermeyer D(1).

Author information:
(1)Medigene Immunotherapies GmbH, 82152 Planegg, Germany.
(2)Immunoanalytics-Research Group Tissue Control of Immunocytes (TCI), Helmholtz 
Zentrum München, 81377 Munich, Germany.
(3)Medigene AG, 82152 Planegg, Germany.

The hostile tumor microenvironment (TME) is a major challenge for the treatment 
of solid tumors with T-cell receptor (TCR)-modified T-cells (TCR-Ts), as it 
negatively influences T-cell efficacy, fitness, and persistence. These negative 
influences are caused, among others, by the inhibitory checkpoint PD-1/PD-L1 
axis. The Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) is a highly 
relevant cancer/testis antigen for TCR-T immunotherapy due to broad expression 
in multiple solid cancer indications. A TCR with high specificity and 
sensitivity for PRAME was isolated from non-tolerized T-cell repertoires and 
introduced into T-cells alongside a chimeric PD1-41BB receptor, consisting of 
the natural extracellular domain of PD-1 and the intracellular signaling domain 
of 4-1BB, turning an inhibitory pathway into a T-cell co-stimulatory pathway. 
The addition of PD1-41BB to CD8+ T-cells expressing the transgenic PRAME-TCR 
enhanced IFN-γ secretion, improved cytotoxic capacity, and prevented exhaustion 
upon repetitive re-challenge with tumor cells in vitro without altering the in 
vitro safety profile. Furthermore, a single dose of TCR-Ts co-expressing 
PD1-41BB was sufficient to clear a hard-to-treat melanoma xenograft in a mouse 
model, whereas TCR-Ts without PD1-41BB could not eradicate the PD-L1-positive 
tumors. This cutting-edge strategy supports development efforts to provide more 
effective TCR-T immunotherapies for the treatment of solid tumors.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers14081998
PMCID: PMC9030144
PMID: 35454906

Conflict of interest statement: M.S., D.B., C.G., K.M., and M.B. (Maja Bürdek) 
are employees and D.J.S. is a Managing Director of Medigene Immunotherapies 
GmbH, a subsidiary of Medigene AG, Planegg, Germany. N.S., I.F., C.K., M.B. 
(Monika Braun), S.W., and D.S. were employees of Medigene Immunotherapies GmbH 
during their contributions to this publication. N.S., M.B. (Monika Braun), and 
D.S. are current employees at Evotec; S.W. is a current employee at SCG Cell 
Therapy GmbH; I.F. is a current employee at Juno Therapeutics GmbH, a Bristol 
Myers Squibb Company; C.K. is a current employee at Intercept Pharma Deutschland 
GmbH.


433. Front Genet. 2022 Apr 8;13:832331. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2022.832331.
eCollection  2022.

Exploration of Reduced Mitochondrial Content-Associated Gene Signature and 
Immunocyte Infiltration in Colon Adenocarcinoma by an Integrated Bioinformatic 
Analysis.

Kang J(1)(2)(3), Li N(1)(2)(3)(4), Wang F(1)(2)(3), Wei Y(1)(2)(3), Zeng 
Y(1)(2)(3), Luo Q(1)(2)(3), Sun X(1)(2)(3), Xu H(1)(2)(3), Peng J(1)(2)(3), Zhou 
F(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation and Medical Oncology, Zhongnan Hospital Wuhan 
University, Wuhan, China.
(2)Hubei Province Key Laboratory of Tumor Biological Behaviors, Wuhan, China.
(3)Hubei Cancer Clinical Study Center, Wuhan, China.
(4)Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, Wuhan, China.

Purpose: Mitochondrial dysfunction refers to cancer immune evasion. A novel 
7-gene prognostic signature related to the mitochondrial DNA copy number was 
utilized to evaluate the immunocyte infiltration in colon cancer according to 
the risk scores and to predict the survival for colon cancer. Experimental 
design: We performed an integrated bioinformatic analysis to analyze 
transcriptome profiling of the EB-treated mitochondrial DNA-defected NCM460 cell 
line with differentially expressed genes between tumor and normal tissues of 
COAD in TCGA. The LASSO analysis was utilized to establish a prognostic 
signature. ESTIMATE and CIBERSORT validated the differences of immunocyte 
infiltration between colon cancer patients with high- and low-risk scores. 
Results: Our study identified a 7-gene prognostic signature (LRRN2, ANKLE1, 
GPRASP1, PRAME, TCF7L1, RAB6B, and CALB2). Patients with colon cancer were split 
into the high- and low-risk group by the risk scores in TCGA (training cohort: 
HR = 2.50 p < 0.0001) and GSE39582 (validation cohort: HR = 1.43 p < 0.05). 
ESTIMATE and CIBERSORT revealed diverseness of immune infiltration in the two 
groups, especially downregulated T-cell infiltration in the patients with 
high-risk scores. Finally, we validated the colon patients with a low expression 
of the mitochondrial number biomarker TFAM had less CD3+ and CD8+ T-cell 
infiltration in clinical specimens. Conclusion: An mtDNA copy number-related 
7-gene prognostic signature was investigated and evaluated, which may help to 
predict the prognosis of colon cancer patients and to guide clinical 
immunotherapy via immunocyte infiltration evaluation.

Copyright © 2022 Kang, li, Wang, Wei, Zeng, Luo, Sun, Xu, Peng and Zhou.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2022.832331
PMCID: PMC9024084
PMID: 35464857

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


434. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 Oct 1;44(10):734-740. doi: 
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002201. Epub 2022 Apr 11.

PRAME Expression in Junctional Melanocytic Proliferations of the Conjunctiva: A 
Potential Biomarker for Primary Acquired Melanosis/Conjunctival Melanocytic 
Intraepithelial Lesions.

Huang YY(1), Hrycaj SM(1), Chan MP(1)(2), Stagner AM(3)(4), Patel RM(1)(2), 
Bresler SC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology, and.
(2)Dermatology, Michigan Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI.
(3)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA; and.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear, Boston, MA.

Conjunctival melanocytic proliferations are diagnostically challenging, often 
complicated by small specimen size, and are separated into 3 broad categories. 
The first group includes benign nevi and primary acquired melanosis (PAM) 
without atypia. The second group includes junctional melanocytic proliferations 
with a risk of progression to invasive melanoma (PAM with atypia). The last 
category is conjunctival melanoma, of which 65% of tumors arise in the setting 
of PAM with atypia. Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) 
immunohistochemistry has been widely adopted to differentiate cutaneous nevi and 
melanoma. However, there are limited studies on its utility in the evaluation of 
conjunctival melanocytic proliferations with little data regarding its potential 
utility in stratifying PAM. Twenty-eight clinically annotated cases (14 PAM 
without atypia and 14 PAM with atypia) were retrospectively evaluated with 
PRAME/MART-1 duplex immunohistochemistry and were assigned the commonly used 
PRAME immunoreactivity score: 0 for no staining, 1+ for 1%-25% of cells 
positive, 2+ for 26%-50%, 3+ for 51%-75%, and 4+ for >75%. PAM without atypia 
showed low (0-3+) PRAME expression in 14 of 14 cases (100%). PAM with atypia 
showed strong and diffuse (4+) PRAME expression in 12 of 14 cases (86.7%). Seven 
of eight (87.5%) PAM with severe atypia, 4 of 4 PAM (100%) with moderate atypia, 
and 1 of 2 PAM (50%) with mild atypia showed 4+ PRAME expression. In addition, 
all 5 cases that recurred or progressed (all classified as PAM with atypia) 
showed 4+ PRAME expression. Although additional larger studies are needed, PRAME 
seems to be a useful adjunct in evaluating junctional melanocytic proliferations 
of the conjunctiva.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002201
PMID: 35475786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


435. Diagn Pathol. 2022 Apr 28;17(1):41. doi: 10.1186/s13000-022-01218-3.

Cyclin D1 and PRAME expression in distinguishing melanoma in situ from benign 
melanocytic proliferation of the nail unit.

Kim YJ(#)(1), Jung CJ(#)(1), Na H(1), Lee WJ(1), Chang SE(1), Lee MW(1), Park 
CS(2), Lim Y(#)(3)(4), Won CH(#)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, 88 Olympic- ro 43 gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, 88 Olympic- ro 43 gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, 88 Olympic- ro 43 gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea. 
ykwh01232@naver.com.
(4)Present address: Department of Dermatology, Seoul National University 
Hospital, 101, Daehak ro, Jongno gu, Seoul, Korea. ykwh01232@naver.com.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, 88 Olympic- ro 43 gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea. drwon@amc.seoul.kr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Distinguishing benign lesion from early malignancy in melanocytic 
lesions of the nail unit still remains a diagnostic challenge, both clinically 
and histopathologically. While several immunohistochemistry (IHC) stainings have 
been suggested to help discriminate benign subungual melanocytic proliferation 
(SMP) and subungual melanoma in situ (MIS), the diagnostic utility of IHC 
staining for cyclin D1 and PRAME has not been thoroughly investigated in 
melanocytic lesions of nail unit.
METHODS: This retrospective study included cases of benign SMP and subungual MIS 
confirmed by biopsy at Asan Medical Center from January 2016 to December 2020. 
Cases of melanocytic activation without proliferation and melanoma where dermal 
invasion was identified were excluded. Cyclin D1 and PRAME expression was 
assessed by counting proportion of melanocytes with nuclear positivity under 
200x magnification.
RESULTS: A total of 14 patients with benign SMP and 13 patients with subungual 
MIS were included in this study. 11 patients with benign SMP (71.4%) and 5 
patients with subungual MIS (38.5%) showed > 60% nuclear immunostaining for 
cyclin D1, respectively. While 13 patients with benign SMP (92.9%) showed 
totally negative staining for PRAME, 10 patients with subungual MIS (76.9%) 
exhibited > 50% nuclear immunostaining for PRAME. Using the cutoff of 10%, PRAME 
exhibited good overall discrimination between benign SMP and subungual MIS 
(AUC = 0.849, 95% CI = 0.659-0.957).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that PRAME IHC staining as a reliable 
discriminator in distinguishing subungual MIS from benign SMP.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13000-022-01218-3
PMCID: PMC9047257
PMID: 35484605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


436. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Aug;49(8):709-716. doi: 10.1111/cup.14245. Epub 2022
May  24.

PRAME immunohistochemistry of spitzoid neoplasms.

Koh SS(1), Lau SK(1), Scapa JV(1), Cassarino DS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Dermatopathology, Southern California Permanente 
Medical Group, Kaiser Permanente Anaheim/Irvine Medical Center, Anaheim, 
California, USA.
(2)Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center, Los Angeles, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: Spitzoid melanocytic neoplasms are well known to be diagnostically 
challenging. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and molecular approaches have been used 
as ancillary diagnostic tests. Herein, we investigate the use of PRAME IHC for 
the assessment of spitzoid melanocytic neoplasms.
METHODS: Ten Spitz nevi, 14 atypical Spitz tumors, and 11 spitzoid melanomas 
were retrieved, and PRAME IHC was scored on a scale of 1-4 (in % quartiles). 
Intensity of staining was categorized as weak or strong. Cases with no staining 
received a score of 0. Positive lymph nodes from three spitzoid melanomas were 
also analyzed.
RESULTS: Spitz nevi, atypical Spitz tumors, and spitzoid melanomas had mean 
PRAME IHC scores of 1.20, 0.93, and 3.36, respectively. The percentage of cases 
with a score 3 or higher for each category of spitzoid neoplasms are as follows: 
Spitz nevus (20%), atypical Spitz tumor (0%), and spitzoid melanoma (82%). Among 
the spitzoid melanomas, three cases had positive sentinel lymph nodes, which 
showed PRAME score of 2, 4, and 4 in the metastatic deposits.
CONCLUSIONS: Previous reports revealed PRAME IHC as useful tool to distinguish 
benign from malignant melanocytic lesions. The results presented here are 
concordant with the prior studies, but expand the application of this marker to 
Spitz nevi/tumors and spitzoid melanomas. The present findings suggest the 
potential diagnostic utility of PRAME IHC in the assessment of spitzoid 
melanocytic lesions, particularly in distinguishing spitzoid melanomas from 
Spitz nevi and atypical Spitz tumors.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14245
PMID: 35488519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Leuk Res. 2022 Jun;117:106842. doi: 10.1016/j.leukres.2022.106842. Epub 2022
Apr  26.

T(H)1 cytokines induce senescence in AML.

Hashimoto H(1), Güngör D(1), Krickeberg N(1), Schmitt J(1), Doll L(1), Schmidt 
M(1), Schleicher S(1), Criado-Moronati E(1), Schilbach K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Children's 
Hospital Tuebingen, Hoppe-Seyler Street 1, 72076 Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Department of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, University Children's 
Hospital Tuebingen, Hoppe-Seyler Street 1, 72076 Tübingen, Germany. Electronic 
address: karin.schilbach@med.uni-tuebingen.de.

Cancer testis antigen PRAME is over-expressed in a variety of malignant cells 
but is not or minimally expressed in normal non-germ line cells. Adoptive 
transfer of PRAME-specific T cells is thus under investigation in clinical 
trials as an innovative therapeutic option for acute myeloid leukemia (AML). 
However, their senescence-inducing activity has not been studied. This study 
therefore examines senescence induction in AML cells by PRAME-specific TH1 
cells. Analysis of cell cycle and marker expression demonstrate that the 
supernatants of antigen-stimulated PRAME-specific TH1 cells induce senescence in 
AML cell lines Kasumi and Nomo-1 through combinative IFN-γ and TNF-α. 
Additionally IFN-γ and TNF-α secreted by TCR-activated Vδ2+ or CMV-specific T 
cells can also drive these AML cell lines into terminal growth arrest. G1/0 
arrest is also suggested in patient-derived AML by TH1 cytokines or supernatants 
from Zoledronate-stimulated or aCD3/aCD28-stimulated PBMCs. Thus, we show for 
the first time that senescence is induced in AML cells by combined IFN-γ and 
TNF-α, and that these cytokines can be derived either from TCR-engineered CD4+ T 
cells, or intriguingly from Virus-specific as well as innate Vδ2+ T cells 
responding to their cognate antigens, namely T-cell responses targeting an 
antigen that is NOT expressed by the leukemic cells.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.leukres.2022.106842
PMID: 35490594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 Aug 1;44(8):575-580. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002208.  Epub 2022 Apr 27.

PRAME Expression Correlates With Genomic Aberration and Malignant Diagnosis of 
Spitzoid Melanocytic Neoplasms.

Gerami P(1), Benton S(1), Zhao J(1), Zhang B(1), Lampley N 3rd(1), Roth A(1), 
Boutko A(1), Olivares S(1), Busam KJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL; and.
(2)Department of Pathology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, 
NY.

Spitzoid melanocytic neoplasms are a diagnostically challenging class of lesions 
in dermatopathology. Recently, molecular assays and immunohistochemical markers 
have been explored as ancillary methods to assist in the diagnostic workup. 
Specifically, preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) 
immunohistochemistry is a nuclear stain commonly positive in melanomas, but not 
in nevi. This study investigates PRAME immunoreactivity (≥75% positive nuclear 
staining in tumor cells) in a set of 59 spitzoid melanocytic neoplasms with 
known clinical outcomes. We compared PRAME status with (1) the clinical 
outcomes, (2) the morphologic diagnoses, and (3) the status of TERT promoter 
mutation. Regarding clinical outcomes, 3 cases developed metastatic disease, of 
which 2 expressed diffusely positive PRAME staining. Of the 56 cases that did 
not show evidence of metastasis, 6 expressed diffusely positive PRAME staining. 
Morphologically, diffusely positive PRAME staining was seen in 7 of 21 cases 
(33.3%) diagnosed as melanoma and only 1 benign tumor 1 of 38 (2.6%). There were 
4 of 8 cases with a TERT promoter mutation which were diffusely PRAME-positive 
compared with 4 of 51 cases without TERT promoter mutation ( P = 0.001). Our 
results show a statistically significant correlation between PRAME expression 
and the diagnosis, outcome, and TERT promoter mutation status of atypical 
spitzoid melanocytic neoplasms, suggesting immunohistochemistry for PRAME can 
help support a suspected diagnosis. However, because of occasional 
false-positive and negative test results, correlation with the clinical and 
histologic findings as well as results from other tests is needed for the 
interpretation of diagnostically challenging spitzoid melanocytic neoplasms.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002208
PMID: 35503885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Int J Gynecol Pathol. 2023 Jan 1;42(1):35-42. doi:
10.1097/PGP.0000000000000864.  Epub 2022 May 20.

PRAME Expression in Endometrioid and Serous Endometrial Carcinoma: A Potential 
Immunotherapeutic Target and Possible Diagnostic Pitfall.

Coppock JD(1), Gradecki SE, Mills AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer testes antigen 
initially employed as a diagnostic marker for melanoma. Although negative in 
most normal tissues, its expression has been reported in benign endometrial 
glands. Additionally, PRAME expression has been identified in a growing list of 
solid and hematologic malignancies and is of interest as a predictive biomarker, 
as cancer vaccination strategies and adoptive T-cell transfer targeting this 
molecule are under clinical investigation; additionally, PRAME may identify 
candidates for retinoid therapy. However, expression of PRAME has not been 
well-studied in endometrial cancers. We herein evaluate PRAME expression in 
endometrial carcinomas to better characterize its limitations as a diagnostic 
melanoma marker as well as its potential as a predictive biomarker in 
endometrial carcinomas. PRAME expression was evaluated in 256 endometrioid 
(n=235) and serous (n=21) endometrial carcinomas via tissue microarray. In all, 
89% (227/256) demonstrated some degree of nuclear PRAME expression, including 
88% (207/235) of endometrioid carcinomas and 95% (20/21) of serous carcinomas. 
Diffuse (>50%) expression was observed in 70% (179/256) of all cases, including 
69% (163/235) of endometrioid carcinomas and 76% (16/21) of serous carcinomas. 
There was no association between degree of expression and grade, mismatch repair 
protein status, or stage. The widespread expression of PRAME in endometrial 
carcinomas suggests this marker should not be interpreted as specific for 
melanoma in this context. However PRAME may have utility as a predictive 
biomarker in endometrial cancer, and expansion of testing of PRAME-based 
therapies to endometrioid and serous endometrial carcinomas may lead to new 
therapeutic options for these endometrial cancer subtypes.

Copyright © 2022 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.

DOI: 10.1097/PGP.0000000000000864
PMID: 35512215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


440. Zhongguo Dang Dai Er Ke Za Zhi. 2022 May 15;24(5):543-549. doi: 
10.7499/j.issn.1008-8830.2111108.

[Clinical features and prognosis of childhood B-lineage acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia expressing the PRAME gene].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Zhang F(1), Lu AD(1), Zuo YX(1), Ding MM(1), Jia YP(1), Zhang LP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, People's Hospital, Peking University, Beijing 
100044, China.

OBJECTIVES: To study the clinical and prognostic significance of the 
preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) gene in the absence of 
specific fusion gene expression in children with B-lineage acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (B-ALL).
METHODS: A total of 167 children newly diagnosed with B-ALL were enrolled, among 
whom 70 were positive for the PRAME gene and 97 were negative. None of the 
children were positive for MLL-r, BCR/ABL, E2A/PBX1, or ETV6/RUNX1. The PRAME 
positive and negative groups were analyzed in terms of clinical features, 
prognosis, and related prognostic factors.
RESULTS: Compared with the PRAME negative group, the PRAME positive group had a 
significantly higher proportion of children with the liver extending >6 cm below 
the costal margin (P<0.05). There was a significant reduction in the PRAME copy 
number after induction chemotherapy (P<0.05). In the minimal residual disease 
(MRD) positive group after induction chemotherapy, the PRAME copy number was not 
correlated with the MRD level (P>0.05). In the MRD negative group, there was 
also no correlation between them (P>0.05). The PRAME positive group had a 
significantly higher 4-year event-free survival rate than the PRAME negative 
group (87.5%±4.6% vs 73.5%±4.6%, P<0.05), while there was no significant 
difference between the two groups in the 4-year overall survival rate 
(88.0%±4.4% vs 85.3%±3.8%, P>0.05). The Cox proportional-hazards regression 
model analysis showed that positive PRAME expression was a protective factor for 
event-free survival rate in children with B-ALL (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the PRAME gene cannot be monitored as MRD, overexpression 
of PRAME suggests a good prognosis in B-ALL.

Publisher: 目的: 研究在无特异性融合基因表达时，黑色素瘤特异性抗原（preferentially expressed antigen of 
melanoma，PRAME）基因阳性在儿童急性B淋巴细胞白血病（acute B lymphoblastic 
leukemia，B-ALL）中的临床及预后意义。方法: 
纳入167例新诊断的B-ALL患儿，其中70例PRAME基因阳性，97例PRAME基因阴性，所有患儿均不表达MLL-r、BCR/ABL、E2A/PBX1、ETV6/RUNX1，分析2组患儿的临床特点、预后及预后的相关因素。结果: 
PRAME阳性组肝肋下>6 
cm患儿比例高于PRAME阴性组（P<0.05）。诱导化疗后PRAME基因拷贝数较治疗前下降（P<0.05），诱导化疗后微小残留病（minimal 
residual 
disease，MRD）阳性组中，PRAME基因拷贝数与MRD水平无相关性（P>0.05）；在诱导化疗后MRD阴性组中，二者亦无相关性（P>0.05）。PRAME阳性组4年无事件生存率高于PRAME阴性组（87.5%±4.6% 
vs 73.5%±4.6%，P<0.05），2组4年总生存率差异无统计学意义（88.0%±4.4% vs 
85.3%±3.8%，P>0.05）。Cox比例风险回归模型分析显示PRAME基因表达是影响B-ALL患儿4年无事件生存率的保护因素（P<0.05）。结论: 
尽管PRAME基因不能作为MRD监测，但在B-ALL中PRAME基因过表达提示预后良好。.

DOI: 10.7499/j.issn.1008-8830.2111108
PMCID: PMC9154367
PMID: 35644195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Pathology. 2022 Oct;54(6):721-728. doi: 10.1016/j.pathol.2022.03.003. Epub
2022  May 26.

PRAME immunostain expression in sebaceous lesions, cutaneous carcinomas and 
adnexal structures.

Ng JKM(1), Choi PCL(1), Chow C(1), Li JJX(2), Chan AWS(3), Cheung CMT(3), Ip 
ECC(3), Ng HK(1), To KF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomical and Cellular Pathology, Prince of Wales Hospital, 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
(2)Department of Anatomical and Cellular Pathology, Prince of Wales Hospital, 
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong. Electronic address: 
joshuali@cuhk.edu.hk.
(3)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Prince of Wales Hospital, The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.

The use of immunostain for PRAME antigen is well established for cutaneous 
melanolocytic lesions. However, its staining in other cutaneous structures and 
lesions is under reported. This study assessed PRAME staining in a large cohort 
of normal skin tissue, sebaceous lesions, and cutaneous carcinomas to better 
delineate patterns of PRAME immunoreactivity. PRAME immunostaining was performed 
on sections of sebaceous lesions and tissue microarrays of basal cell carcinomas 
(BCCs) and squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs). Normal cutaneous adnexal structures 
were assessed on the sections of sebaceous lesions. For sebaceous lesions and 
non-lesional sebaceous glands, PRAME immunostaining was assessed for mature, 
germinative and sebocytes independently. A total of 193 sebaceous lesions, 64 
BCCs and 35 SCCs were stained for PRAME immunostain. Staining pattern was 
predominantly cytoplasmic in normal apocrine glands, germinative sebocytes of 
sebaceous glands, and hair germs (p<0.001). Lesional sebocytes did not show 
different staining compared to normal sebaceous glands (p>0.05). Rare nuclear 
staining was observed in the normal epidermis (0.6%) and junctional melanocytes 
(4.1%). BCC, SCC and sebaceous carcinoma all showed low levels of PRAME 
immunoreactivity with variable proportions of cases demonstrating nuclear 
staining (BCC 59.4%, SCC 37.1%, sebaceous carcinoma 5.3%). PRAME immunostaining 
is positive in germinative sebocytes, various cutaneous structures and 
carcinomas. Nuclear staining, identical to melanoma, was observed in normal 
epidermis, junctional melanocytes, BCCs, SCCs, and sebaceous carcinomas. The 
pattern of PRAME staining in the skin must be recognised to avoid pitfalls in 
interpretating PRAME immunostain.

Copyright © 2022 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2022.03.003
PMID: 35644638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Antibodies (Basel). 2022 May 10;11(2):34. doi: 10.3390/antib11020034.

Mammalian Display Platform for the Maturation of Bispecific TCR-Based Molecules.

Dilchert J(1)(2), Hofmann M(1), Unverdorben F(1), Kontermann R(2), Bunk S(1).

Author information:
(1)Immatics Biotechnologies GmbH, Paul-Ehrlich-Str. 15, 72076 Tuebingen, 
Germany.
(2)Institute of Cell Biology and Immunology, University of Stuttgart, 
Allmandring 31, 70569 Stuttgart, Germany.

Bispecific T cell receptor (TCR)-based molecules capable of redirecting and 
activating T cells towards tumor cells represent a novel and promising class of 
biotherapeutics for the treatment of cancer. Usage of TCRs allows for targeting 
of intracellularly expressed and highly selective cancer antigens, but also 
requires a complex maturation process to increase the naturally low affinity and 
stability of TCRs. Even though TCR domains can be matured via phage and yeast 
display, these techniques share the disadvantages of non-human glycosylation 
patterns and the need for a later reformatting into the final bispecific format. 
Here, we describe the development and application of a Chinese Hamster Ovary 
(CHO) display for affinity engineering of TCRs in the context of the final 
bispecific TCR format. The recombinase-mediated cassette exchange (RCME)-based 
system allows for stable, single-copy integration of bispecific TCR molecules 
with high efficiency into a defined genetic locus of CHO cells. We used the 
system to isolate affinity-increased variants of bispecific T cell engaging 
receptor (TCER) molecules from a library encoding different CDR variants of a 
model TCR targeting preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME). When 
expressed as a soluble protein, the selected TCER molecules exhibited strong 
reactivity against PRAME-positive tumor cells associated with a pronounced 
cytokine release from activated T cells. The obtained data support the usage of 
the CHO display-based maturation system for TCR affinity maturation in the 
context of the final bispecific TCER format.

DOI: 10.3390/antib11020034
PMCID: PMC9150015
PMID: 35645207

Conflict of interest statement: J.D., M.H., F.U. and S.B. are all paid employees 
of Immatics Biotechnologies GmbH and R.K. is a member of the scientific advisory 
board.


443. Dermatopathology (Basel). 2022 May 2;9(2):148-157. doi: 
10.3390/dermatopathology9020019.

PRAME Expression as Helpful Immunohistochemical Marker in Rhabdoid Melanoma.

Glutsch V(1), Wobser M(1), Schilling B(1), Gesierich A(1), Goebeler M(1), Kneitz 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Venereology and Allergology, University Hospital 
Würzburg, 97080 Würzburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Rhabdoid melanoma is a rare variant of malignant melanoma with 
characteristic cytomorphologic features. Due to the potential loss of 
conventional melanocytic markers, histopathologic diagnosis is often 
challenging. We hypothesize that immunostaining for PReferentially expressed 
Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) might have the potential to uncover the melanocytic 
origin of these dedifferentiated tumors.
METHODS: Four cases of rhabdoid primary melanomas were assessed by 
immunohistochemistry for expression of PRAME and conventional melanocytic 
markers. Immunohistochemical expression patterns were analyzed in the rhabdoid 
primaries and, if available, associated metastases.
RESULTS: All four cases of rhabdoid primary melanomas showed a strong nuclear 
positivity for PRAME, while the expression of conventional melanocytic markers 
S100, MART-1, SOX-10 and HMB-45 was variable between the analyzed cases.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, we report four cases of rhabdoid primary melanoma with 
high to intermediate expression of PRAME despite the partial and variable loss 
of other melanocytic markers. Hence, PRAME might facilitate the recognition of 
this highly aggressive entity to avoid misdiagnosis due to histopathologic 
pitfalls.

DOI: 10.3390/dermatopathology9020019
PMCID: PMC9149841
PMID: 35645230

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


444. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Sep;49(9):780-786. doi: 10.1111/cup.14267. Epub 2022
Jun  28.

PRAME immunohistochemistry for melanoma diagnosis: A STARD-compliant diagnostic 
accuracy study.

O'Connor MK(1), Dai H(1), Fraga GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Kansas School 
of Medicine, Kansas City, Kansas, USA.

BACKGROUND: Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a 
tumor-associated antigen that is frequently expressed in cutaneous melanoma and 
can be evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Earlier studies on PRAME utilized 
case-control study designs that may misestimate diagnostic accuracy and lack 
generalizability.
METHODS: Using retrospective cohort selection, a cross-sectional study of 
diagnostic accuracy of PRAME was conducted according to standards for reporting 
diagnostic accuracy studies requirements.
RESULTS: Mean PRAME positive fraction was higher in 42 malignant melanocytic 
lesions than 101 benign melanocytic lesions (0.71 ± 0.30 vs. 0.13 ± 0.20, 
p < 0.01). Receiver operating characteristic curve showed the test was effective 
(area under the curve = 0.90). Global PRAME 4+ scores (>75%) were associated 
with sensitivity of 0.63, specificity of 0.97, accuracy of 0.87, and excellent 
interrater concordance (Kappa = 0.83). Lower cutoffs for PRAME of 2+ (>25%) and 
3+ (>50%) produced higher joint sensitivity/specificity (Youden index) than 
PRAME 4+, but lower accuracy.
CONCLUSION: PRAME as it is used in clinical practice is an effective test for 
melanoma. PRAME is best used as an ordinal variable to calculate the posttest 
probability of melanoma. PRAME ≤25% (0/1+) favors nevus, PRAME 26%-75% (2/3+) is 
noncontributory, and PRAME >75% (4+) favors melanoma.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14267
PMID: 35672262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Sep;49(9):829-832. doi: 10.1111/cup.14286. Epub 2022
Jul  11.

PRAME expression is similar in scar and desmoplastic melanoma.

Plotzke JM(1), Zoumberos NA(2), Hrycaj SM(1), Harms PW(1)(3), Bresler SC(1)(3), 
Chan MP(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little 
Rock, Arkansas, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14286
PMCID: PMC9541680
PMID: 35752877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


446. Br J Dermatol. 2022 Nov;187(5):804-806. doi: 10.1111/bjd.21715. Epub 2022
Jul  17.

Clinically unquestionable but histologically deceptive melanomas in acral skin 
grafts: PRAME confirms its role.

Santandrea G(1)(2), Valli R(1), Ragazzi M(1), Castagnetti F(3), Lai M(4)(5), 
Longo C(4)(5), Piana S(1).

Author information:
(1)Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Azienda USL-IRCCS Reggio Emilia, Viale 
Risorgimento 80, Reggio Emilia, 40123, Italy.
(2)Clinical and Experimental Medicine PhD Program, University of Modena and 
Reggio Emilia, Modena, 41121, Italy.
(3)Surgery Unit, Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Azienda USL-IRCCS Reggio Emilia, 
Viale Risorgimento 80, 42123, Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(4)Centro Oncologico ad Alta Tecnologia Diagnostica-Skin Cancer Unit, 
Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Azienda USL-IRCCS Reggio Emilia, Reggio Emilia, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Dermatology, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 41121, 
Modena, Italy.

The aim of this study was to investigate the role of PRAME in reducing the risk 
of an underestimation of tumour margins, in a consecutive series of acral 
melanomas recurring on skin grafts.

© 2022 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.21715
PMID: 35762291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Zhonghua Bing Li Xue Za Zhi. 2022 Jul 8;51(7):621-626. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112151-20211116-00835.

[Application of immunohistochemical staining of PRAME in differential diagnosis 
between melanoma and melanocytic nevus].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Du J(1), Yu WJ(2), Guo RP(1), Su J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Peking University Third Hospital; Department of 
Pathology, School of Basic Medical Science, Peking University, Beijing 100191, 
China.
(2)Department of Pathology, the Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao 266003, China.

Objective: To investigate the diagnostic value of preferentially expressed 
antigen in melanoma (PRAME) in differential diagnosis of benign and malignant 
cutaneous melanocytic lesions. Methods: Fifty-nine cases of melanoma (50 cases 
of skin primary melanoma, and 9 cases of metastatic melanoma) and 48 cases of 
melanocytic nevus (40 cases of common nevus and 8 cases of dysplastic nevus) 
were subject to PRAME immunohistochemistry staining.The difference of PRAME 
expression between melanoma and melanocytic nevus was analyzed. Results: Among 
the 50 patients with primary cutaneous melanoma, there were 23 males and 27 
females ranging in age from 33 to 87 years (average age 62.4 years, median age 
64.5 years). Among the 9 metastatic melanoma there were 7 males and 2 females 
ranging in age from 40 to 82 years (average age 64 years, median age 65 years). 
Twenty-six cases (26/50, 52.0%) of cutaneous primary melanoma and 4 cases (4/9) 
of metastatic melanoma showed diffuse positive PRAME staining. 40 cases (40/40, 
100%) of common nevus and 8 (8/8) cases of dysplastic nevus were PRAME negative. 
Compared with melanocytic nevus group, the melanoma group included more cases 
with diffuse positive PRAME staining (P<0.05). The sensitivity and specificity 
of using PRAME to differentiate primary cutaneous melanoma from melanocytic 
nevus in the cohort is 52.0% and 100%. Conclusions: There is a significant 
difference in the expression of PRAME between melanoma and melanocytic 
nevus.Thus, PRAME can be used as an auxiliary diagnostic tool for 
differentiating benign from malignant cutaneous lesions.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨黑色素瘤优先表达抗原（PRAME）免疫组织化学染色在良恶性皮肤黑色素细胞肿瘤鉴别中的应用价值。 方法： 
收集北京大学第三医院病理科2018年10月至2020年12月间常规及会诊确诊的黑色素瘤病例59例（皮肤原发性黑色素瘤50例，转移性黑色素瘤9例），黑色素细胞痣48例（普通型痣40例，非典型性痣8例），进行PRAME免疫组织化学染色，比较黑色素瘤和黑色素细胞痣中PRAME免疫组织化学表达的差异。 
结果： 
皮肤原发性黑色素瘤患者50例，男性23例，女性27例；年龄33~87岁（平均年龄62.4岁，中位年龄64.5岁）。转移性黑色素瘤9例，男性7例，女性2例；年龄40~82岁（平均年龄64岁，中位年龄65岁）。26例（26/50，52.0%）皮肤原发性黑色素瘤和4例（4/9）转移性黑色素瘤均表现为PRAME弥漫阳性；40例（40/40，100%）普通型痣和8例（8/8）非典型性痣均表现为PRAME阴性。黑色素瘤组中PRAME弥漫阳性病例数所占比例显著高于黑色素细胞痣组（P<0.05）。本组病例中，PRAME鉴别良恶性皮肤原发性黑色素细胞肿瘤的灵敏度和特异度分别为52.0%和100%。 
结论： PRAME免疫组织化学染色在黑色素瘤和黑色素细胞痣中表达的差异，可作为良恶性皮肤黑色素细胞肿瘤鉴别的辅助诊断手段。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112151-20211116-00835
PMID: 35785832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. J Genet Eng Biotechnol. 2022 Jul 5;20(1):97. doi:
10.1186/s43141-022-00376-7.

Correlation of preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) gene 
expression with clinical characteristics in acute leukemia patients.

Kulkarni NV(1), Shetty RA(1), Kumari N S(2), Shetty VV(3), Krishna R(4), 
Arumugam M(1), Kalal AA(1), Shetty P(5).

Author information:
(1)Central Research Laboratory, KSHEMA Centre for Genetic Services, KS Hegde 
Medical Academy, NITTE (Deemed to be) University, Derlakatte, Mangalore, 
Karnataka, 575 018, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, KS Hegde Medical Academy, NITTE (Deemed to be) 
University, Nityanandanagar, Deralakatte, Mangalore, Karnataka, 575 018, India.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, KS Hegde Medical Academy, NITTE (Deemed to be 
University), Derlakatte, Mangalore, Karnataka, 575 018, India.
(4)Yenepoya Medical College Hospital, Yenepoya (Deemed to be) University, 
Nityanandanagar, Deralakatte, Mangalore, Karnataka, 575 018, India.
(5)Central Research Laboratory, KSHEMA Centre for Genetic Services, KS Hegde 
Medical Academy, NITTE (Deemed to be) University, Derlakatte, Mangalore, 
Karnataka, 575 018, India. dprashanthshetty@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) gene is 
regularly overexpressed in acute leukemia (AL) and other malignant diseases 
which are recognized by human leucocyte antigen (HLA-24) located in the human 
chromosome of 22q11 coded by 509 amino acids. To rule out the PRAME gene 
expression in AL patients and its correlation with clinical characteristics in 
the Indian population set up by RT-qPCR.
RESULTS: A total of 42 samples collected, 29 (69.4%) were males, and 13 (30.95%) 
were females, with a mean and standard deviation for age were 39.07 ± 22.22 
years. Of which AML were of 22 (52.38%) cases, ALL were of 14 (33.33%) cases, 
and 6 (14.2%) cases which included other forms of leukemia. PRAME gene 
expression was highly expressed in thirty-three 27 (64.28%) AL patients compared 
to the least expression in healthy individuals. No significant difference 
between the different forms of AL (p=0.3203) was observed. Cytogenetic analysis 
of normal karyotype (NK), abnormal karyotype (Ab. K), and culture failure (CF) 
displayed statistical non-significance (p=0.5801). Among cytogenetic 
abnormalities obtained, no significant differences between the groups were 
observed (p=0.8507). Chloride, potassium, and absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) 
was found to be statistically significant with p=0.0038**, p=0.0358*, and 
p=0.0216*, respectively, between all other clinical characteristics. There was 
no correlation between the PRAME gene expression and clinical parameters.
CONCLUSION: PRAME gene expression in AL patients was highly expressed, 
comparable to studies reported globally with significant cytogenetic results. 
PRAME gene could be used as a potential diagnostic marker for monitoring the 
malignancies and minimal residual disease in AL.

© 2022. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s43141-022-00376-7
PMCID: PMC9256891
PMID: 35788450

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


449. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Oct;49(10):859-867. doi: 10.1111/cup.14290. Epub 2022
Jul  25.

Diagnostic utility of PRAME expression by immunohistochemistry in subungual and 
non-subungual acral melanocytic lesions.

Rothrock AT(1), Torres-Cabala CA(1), Milton DR(2), Cho WC(1), Nagarajan P(1), 
Vanderbeck K(1), Curry JL(1), Ivan D(1), Prieto VG(1), Aung PP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas, USA.

BACKGROUND: The immunohistochemical (IHC) marker PReferentially expressed 
Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) has shown promise in the diagnosis of melanocytic 
lesions. A few studies have investigated PRAME IHC expression in acral 
melanomas, but PRAME expression in subungual melanomas is largely unknown. We 
evaluated the utility of PRAME IHC expression in distinguishing subungual 
melanomas (SUM) and non-subungual acral melanomas (AM) from acral nevi (AN).
METHODS: Twenty-two SUM, 20 AM, and 14 AN were identified. IHC studies were 
performed using an anti-PRAME antibody. The percentage of lesional cells with 
PRAME expression was recorded and categorized as follows: 0%, 0; 1%-25%, 1+; 
26%-50%, 2+; 51%-75%, 3+; and >75%, 4+. Patient demographics and other relevant 
clinicopathologic parameters were recorded.
RESULTS: Diffuse (4+) PRAME IHC expression was identified in 55% (12/22) SUM and 
70% (14/20) AM, respectively. Any PRAME expression (1+ to 4+) was identified in 
73% (16/22) SUMs and 95% (19/20) AM, respectively. One of 14 (7%) AN exhibited 
PRAME expression; interestingly, the pattern of expression was diffuse.
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, PRAME IHC expression was useful in identifying AM, 
including SUM. However, there are exceptions of PRAME-negative melanomas and 
PRAME-positive nevi.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14290
PMID: 35794643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Br J Haematol. 2022 Sep;198(5):866-874. doi: 10.1111/bjh.18326. Epub 2022
Jul 7.

Enhanced stimulation of antigen-specific immune responses against nucleophosmin 
1 mutated acute myeloid leukaemia by an anti-programmed death 1 antibody.

Greiner J(1)(2), Goetz M(2), Schuler PJ(3), Bulach C(2), Hofmann S(4), 
Schrezenmeier H(5), Dӧhner H(2), Schneider V(2), Guinn BA(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Diakonie Hospital Stuttgart, Stuttgart, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine III, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(3)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine V, University Hospital Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)Institute for Clinical Transfusion Medicine and Immunogenetics Ulm, German 
Red Cross Blood Donation Service Baden-Württemberg-Hessen and Institute for 
Transfusion Medicine, University of Ulm, Ulm, Germany.
(6)Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Hull, Hull, UK.

Nucleophosmin1 (NPM1) is one of the most commonly mutated genes in AML and is 
often associated with a favourable prognosis. Immune responses play an 
increasing role in AML treatment decisions; however, the role of immune 
checkpoint inhibition is still not clear. To address this, we investigated 
specific immune responses against NPM1, and three other leukaemia-associated 
antigens (LAA), PRAME, Wilms' tumour 1 and RHAMM in AML patients. We 
investigated T cell responses against leukaemic progenitor/stem cells (LPC/LSC) 
using colony-forming immunoassays and flow cytometry. We examined whether immune 
checkpoint inhibition with the anti-programmed death 1 antibody increases the 
immune response against stem cell-like cells, comparing cells from NPM1 mutated 
and NPM1 wild-type AML patients. We found that the anti-PD-1 antibody, 
nivolumab, increases LAA stimulated cytotoxic T lymphocytes and the cytotoxic 
effect against LPC/LSC. The effect was strongest against NPM1mut cells when the 
immunogenic epitope was derived from the mutated region of NPM1 and these 
effects were enhanced through the addition of anti-PD-1. The data suggest that 
patients with NPM1 mutated AML could be treated with the immune checkpoint 
inhibitor anti-PD-1 and that this treatment combined with NPM1-mutation specific 
directed immunotherapy could be even more effective for this unique group of 
patients.

© 2022 The Authors. British Journal of Haematology published by British Society 
for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.18326
PMID: 35799423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. J Clin Invest. 2022 Jul 15;132(14):e160983. doi: 10.1172/JCI160983.

Genetic mechanism for the loss of PRAME in B cell lymphomas.

Mraz M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Medicine, CEITEC Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology and Oncology, University Hospital 
Brno and Faculty of Medicine, Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.

Comment in
    J Clin Invest. 2022 Jul 15;132(14):

Comment on
    J Clin Invest. 2022 May 16;132(10):

DOI: 10.1172/JCI160983
PMCID: PMC9282919
PMID: 35838053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The author has declared 
that no conflict of interest exists.


452. J Clin Invest. 2022 Jul 15;132(14):e161979. doi: 10.1172/JCI161979.

Genetic mechanism for the loss of PRAME in B cell lymphomas. Reply.

Takata K(1)(2), Steidl C(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Lymphoid Cancer, British Columbia Cancer, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.
(2)Division of Molecular and Cellular Pathology, Niigata University Graduate 
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

Comment on
    J Clin Invest. 2022 May 16;132(10):
    J Clin Invest. 2022 Jul 15;132(14):

DOI: 10.1172/JCI161979
PMCID: PMC9282923
PMID: 35838054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: CS has performed 
consultancy for Seattle Genetics, Curis Inc., Roche, AbbVie, Juno Therapeutics, 
and Bayer and has received research support from Epizyme, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
and Trillium Therapeutics Inc.


453. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Dec;49(12):1074-1089. doi: 10.1111/cup.14295. Epub 2022
Sep  20.

The detectability of intraepidermal melanocytes-A narrative review of 
immunohistochemical studies.

Kuźbicki Ł(1), Brożyna AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Biology, Institute of Biology, Faculty of Biological and 
Veterinary Sciences, Nicolaus Copernicus University in Toruń, Toruń, Poland.

Some intraepidermal lesions, even the nonmelanocytic ones, may mimic melanoma in 
situ. The cytoplasmic clarity in atypical basal cells, architectural disorder 
with cell aggregates or nest-like structures within the epidermis often cause 
challenge particularly in sun-damaged skin. The aim of this review is to 
evaluate the effectiveness of the most often used immunohistochemical melanocyte 
markers in the diagnosis of intraepidermal lesions. All the analyzed markers can 
be useful in detection of intraepidermal melanocytes that occur more densely in 
lentigo maligna than in solar lentigo or sun-damaged skin. However, the number 
of these cells is underestimated by HMB-45 and Mel-5. The cytoplasmic Melan-A 
staining may overestimate melanocyte number and highlight the dendritic process. 
Atypical melanized keratinocytes in actinic keratoses and nest-like structures 
in lichenoid dermatoses may mimic atypical melanocytes in melanomas in situ. 
S-100 remains a marker of high sensitivity but low specificity. The nuclear 
localization of MITF, SOX-10, and PRAME overcomes the problem of melanosome 
transfer to cells of other types. Neither MITF nor SOX-10 is detectable in 
keratinocytes, which makes them useful in distinguishing actinic keratoses from 
melanomas in situ. The use of markers considered as melanocyte specific suggests 
that lichenoid dermatoses constitute a heterogeneous group of lesions.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14295
PMID: 35851493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging Retina. 2022 Jul;53(7):374-378. doi: 
10.3928/23258160-20220616-01. Epub 2022 Jul 1.

Association of Ultrasound Features in Uveal Melanoma With Metastatic Risk as 
Defined by Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma Status.

Rusakevich AM, Schefler AC, Zhou B, Brown A, Robe C, Bretana ME.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 
association between clinical and ultrasound features of uveal melanoma and 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), given its role as a 
biomarker for metastatic mortality.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ultrasonographic characteristics and PRAME expression 
status of patients with uveal melanoma (2016 to 2021) were retrospectively 
analyzed using univariate and multivariate regression.
RESULTS: Of the 81 eyes included, 49 (60%) were PRAME negative and 32 (40%) were 
PRAME positive. Univariate analysis showed that only largest basal diameter 
(LBD) was significantly associated with PRAME positivity (P = .006). There was a 
borderline association between shape and PRAME positivity (P = .054), whereas 
height, internal reflectivity, vascularity, and location showed no effect. 
Multivariate regression identified LBD as the sole significant predictor of 
PRAME positivity (odds ratio, 1.196; 95% CI, 1.055 to 1.379; P = .008).
CONCLUSION: In this cohort, ultrasonographic LBD was significantly associated 
with PRAME status. No other clinical or ultrasound variables were predictive of 
molecular testing results. The results of this PRAME analysis are like prior 
reports, which suggested a strong association between gene expression profiling 
class 2 and increasing LBD. [Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging Retina 2022; 
53:374-378.].

DOI: 10.3928/23258160-20220616-01
PMID: 35858230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2022 Jul 15;14:17588359221107113. doi: 
10.1177/17588359221107113. eCollection 2022.

Multi-antigen-targeted T-cell therapy to treat patients with relapsed/refractory 
breast cancer.

Hoyos V(1), Vasileiou S(2), Kuvalekar M(2), Watanabe A(2), Tzannou I(2), 
Velazquez Y(2), French-Kim M(2), Leung W(2), Lulla S(2), Robertson C(2), Foreman 
C(3), Wang T(3), Bulsara S(3), Lapteva N(2), Grilley B(2), Ellis M(3), Osborne 
CK(3), Coscio A(3), Nangia J(3), Heslop HE(2), Rooney CM(2), Vera JF(2), Lulla 
P(2), Rimawi M(3), Leen AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas 
Children's Hospital and Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA Dan L 
Duncan Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine, 1102 Bates Ave, 
Feigin Center 17th Floor. Houston, TX 77030, USA.
(2)Center for Cell and Gene Therapy, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas 
Children's Hospital and Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Dan L Duncan Comprehensive Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX, USA.

PURPOSE: Adoptively transferred, ex vivo expanded multi-antigen-targeted T cells 
(multiTAA-T) represent a new, potentially effective, and nontoxic therapeutic 
approach for patients with breast cancer (BC). In this first-in-human trial, we 
investigated the safety and clinical effects of administering multiTAA T cells 
targeting the tumor-expressed antigens, Survivin, NY-ESO-1, MAGE-A4, SSX2, and 
PRAME, to patients with relapsed/refractory/metastatic BC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: MultiTAA T-cell products were generated from the 
peripheral blood of heavily pre-treated patients with metastatic or locally 
recurrent unresectable BC of all subtypes and infused at a fixed dose level of 
2 × 107/m2. Patients received two infusions of cells 4 weeks apart and safety 
and clinical activity were determined. Cells were administered in an outpatient 
setting and without prior lymphodepleting chemotherapy.
RESULTS: All patients had estrogen receptor/progesterone receptor positive BC, 
with one patient also having human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive. 
There were no treatment-related toxicities and the infusions were well 
tolerated. Of the 10 heavily pre-treated patients enrolled and infused with 
multiTAA T cells, nine had disease progression while one patient with 10 lines 
of prior therapies experienced prolonged (5 months) disease stabilization that 
was associated with the in vivo expansion and persistence of T cells directed 
against the targeted antigens. Furthermore, antigen spreading and the endogenous 
activation of T cells directed against a spectrum of non-targeted tumor antigens 
were observed in 7/10 patients post-multiTAA infusion.
CONCLUSION: MultiTAA T cells were well tolerated and induced disease 
stabilization in a patient with refractory BC. This was associated with in vivo 
T-cell expansion, persistence, and antigen spreading. Future directions of this 
approach may include additional strategies to enhance the therapeutic benefit of 
multiTAA T cells in patients with BC.

© The Author(s), 2022.

DOI: 10.1177/17588359221107113
PMCID: PMC9290161
PMID: 35860837

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: S.V., M.K., and Y.V. are 
consultants to AlloVir. V.H. holds Marker Therapeutics and AlloVir stock. N.L. 
is a consultant to Tessa Therapeutics. J.F.V. is a cofounder and equity holder 
in AlloVir and Marker Therapeutics and an employee of Marker Therapeutics, which 
aspires to commercialize the described approach. B.J.G. owns QBRegulatory 
Consulting which has consulting agreements with Tessa Therapeutics, Marker 
Therapeutics, LOKON, and AlloVir. H.E.H. is a co-founder with equity in Allovir 
and Marker Therapeutics, has served on advisory boards for Tessa Therapeutics, 
Kiadis, Novartis, Gilead Biosciences, Fresh Wind Biotechnologies and GSK, and 
received research support from Kuur Therapeutics and Tessa Therapeutics. C.M.R. 
has Stock and Other Ownership Interests with Coya, Bluebird Bio, Tessa 
Therapeutics, Marker Therapeutics, AlloVir, Walking Fish, Allogene Therapeutics, 
Memgen, Kuur Therapeutics, Bellicum Pharmaceuticals, TScan Therapeutics, Abintus 
Bio; Consulting or Advisory Role with Abintus Bio, Adaptimmune, Brooklyn 
Immunotherapeutic, Onk Therapeutics, Tessa Therapeutics, Memgen, Torque, Walking 
Fish Therapeutics, TScan Therapeutics, Marker Therapeutics, Turnstone Bio; and 
receives research funding from Kuur Therapeutics. A.M.L is a co-founder and 
equity holder for AlloVir and Marker Therapeutics and a consultant to AlloVir. 
P.L. is a member of the advisory board for Karyopharm. J.N. receives research 
support from Paxman Coolers Ltd. M.R. is a consultant to AstraZeneca, 
Macrogenics, Seagen and Novartis and receives research support from Pfizer. The 
remaining authors have no competing financial interests to disclose.


456. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 Oct 1;44(10):784-786. doi: 
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002230. Epub 2022 Jul 28.

Pigmented Actinic Keratosis Versus In Situ Melanoma: PRAME May Be Helpful.

Santandrea G(1)(2), Longo C(3)(4), Borsari S(4), Lai M(3)(4), Piana S(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Unit, Arcispedale Santa Maria Nuova, Azienda USL-IRCCS Reggio 
Emilia, Reggio Emilia, Italy.
(2)Clinical and Experimental Medicine PhD Program, University of Modena and 
Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, 
Italy and.
(4)Centro Oncologico ad Alta Tecnologia Diagnostica-Dermatologia, Arcispedale 
Santa Maria Nuova, Azienda Unità Sanitaria Locale - IRCCS Reggio Emilia, Reggio 
Emilia, Italy.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002230
PMID: 35925568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


457. Pathol Res Pract. 2022 Sep;237:154044. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2022.154044. Epub
2022  Jul 28.

SOX2 and PRAME in the "reprogramming" of seminoma cells.

Orsatti A(1), Sirolli M(1), Ambrosi F(2), Franceschini T(2), Giunchi F(1), 
Franchini E(2), Grillini M(1), Massari F(3), Mollica V(3), Bianchi FM(4), 
Colecchia M(5), Fiorentino M(6), Ricci C(7).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Unit, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy.
(2)Pathology Unit, Maggiore Hospital, AUSL Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(3)Medical Oncology, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy; Department of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine 
(DIMES), S.Orsola-Malpighi University Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy.
(4)Urology Department, Maggiore Hospital, AUSL Bologna, Bologna, Italy.
(5)Department of Pathology, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milano, 
Italy.
(6)Pathology Unit, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy; Pathology Unit, Maggiore Hospital, AUSL Bologna, Bologna, Italy. 
Electronic address: michelangelo.fiorentino@unibo.it.
(7)Pathology Unit, Maggiore Hospital, AUSL Bologna, Bologna, Italy; Department 
of Experimental, Diagnostic and Specialty Medicine (DIMES), S.Orsola-Malpighi 
University Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, several studies investigated the complex process 
called "reprogramming" of seminoma (S) cells. The accepted pathogenetic model is 
a complex network including SOX2, SOX17, OCT3/4 and PRAME, which modulates the 
epigenetic transcription of numerous downstream genes and drives a divergent 
gene expression profile resulting in the transition from pure S (P-S) to S 
component (S-C) of mixed germ cell tumors of the testis (M-GCTT), and finally to 
embryonal carcinoma (EC). Herein, we tested a large cohort of GCTT with SOX2 and 
PRAME to evaluate their expression in the evolutionary steps of GCTT and verify 
if the modulation in the expression of these two molecules could be relevant for 
the fate of GCTT.
METHODS: We tested 43, 19 and 17 consecutive and retrospectively enrolled cases 
of GCTT, germ cell neoplasia in situ (GCNIS) and uninvolved background testes 
(UBT), respectively. SOX2 and PRAME expressions have been evaluated with H-score 
and compared by adopting the appropriate statistic tests (Student's t-test and 
Mann-Whitney U test).
RESULTS: We found that SOX2 was more expressed by nonseminomatous-GCTT (NS-GCTT) 
(p < 0.001) and EC (p < 0.001) rather than S; by contrast, PRAME showed an 
opposite expression profile being expressed by S but not by NS-GCTT (p < 0.001) 
and EC (p < 0.001). S-C showed different expressions of SOX2 and PRAME compared 
to both P-S (p = 0.002 and <0.001, respectively) and EC (p < 0.001 and 0.042, 
respectively), with intermediate values between these latter two categories. 
GCNIS and UBT showed no expression of SOX2 (scattered positive Leydig cells) but 
high H-score levels of PRAME.
CONCLUSIONS: SOX2 and PRAME are differentially expressed and specularly 
modulated during the "reprogramming" of S cells [P-S (high levels of PRAME, no 
expression/low levels of SOX2) → S-C (intermediate levels of PRAME, intermediate 
levels of SOX2) → EC (no expression/low levels of PRAME, high levels of SOX2)], 
therefore supporting a complex pathogenetic model where the interactions between 
these two molecules are crucial in determining the fate of GCTT.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2022.154044
PMID: 35930824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest All the 
Authors present in this article declare NO CONFLICT OF INTERESTS.


458. Ocul Oncol Pathol. 2022 Jun;8(2):133-140. doi: 10.1159/000524051. Epub 2022
Mar  11.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma Immunohistochemistry Labeling in 
Uveal Melanomas.

Ahmadian SS(1), Dryden IJ(1), Naranjo A(2), Toland A(1), Cayrol RA(1), Born 
DE(1), Egbert PS(1)(2), Brown RA(1), Mruthyunjaya P(2), Lin JH(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, 
California, USA.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Stanford University School of Medicine, 
Stanford, California, USA.
(3)VA Palo Alto Healthcare System, Palo Alto, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular 
malignancy in adults, and despite treatment of the primary tumor, approximately 
15%-50% of patients will develop metastatic disease. Based on gene expression 
profiling (GEPs), UM can be categorized as Class 1A (low metastatic risk), Class 
1B (intermediate metastatic risk), or Class 2 (high metastatic risk). 
PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) status is an independent 
prognostic UM biomarker and a potential target for immunotherapy in metastatic 
UM. PRAME expression status can be detected in tumors using 
reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). More recently, 
immunohistochemistry (IHC) has been developed to detect PRAME protein 
expression. Here, we employed both techniques to evaluate PRAME expression in 18 
UM enucleations.
METHODS: Tumor material from the 18 UM patients who underwent enucleation was 
collected by fine-needle aspiration before or during enucleation and sent for 
GEP and PRAME analysis by RT-PCR. Histologic sections from these patients were 
stained with an anti-PRAME monoclonal antibody. We collected patient 
demographics and tumor characteristics and included this with our analysis of 
GEP class, PRAME status by RT-PCR, and PRAME status by IHC. PRAME IHC and RT-PCR 
results were compared.
RESULTS: Twelve males (12/18) and 6 females (6/18) with an average age of 60.6 
years underwent enucleation for UM. TNM staging of the UM diagnosed Stage I in 2 
patients (2/18), Stage II in 7 patients (7/18), Stage III in 8 patients (8/18), 
and Stage IV in 1 (1/18). GEP was Class 1A in 6 tumors (6/18), Class 1B in 6 
tumors (6/18), and Class 2 in 6 tumors (6/18). PRAME IHC showed diffusely 
positive labeling of all UM cells in 2/18 enucleations; negative IHC labeling of 
UM cells in 9/18 enucleations; and IHC labeling of subsets of UM cells in 7/18 
enucleations. Eleven of the 17 UMs tested for PRAME by both RT-PCR and IHC had 
consistent PRAME results. In the remaining 6/17 cases tested by both modalities, 
PRAME results were discordant between RT-PCR and IHC.
CONCLUSIONS: We find that PRAME IHC distinguishes PRAME-positive and 
PRAME-negative UM tumor cells. Interestingly, IHC reveals focal PRAME expression 
in subsets of tumor cells consistent with tumor heterogeneity. PRAME RT-PCR and 
IHC provide concordant results in most of our cases. We suggest that discordance 
in PRAME results could arise from spatial or temporal variation in PRAME 
expression between tumor cells. Further studies are required to determine the 
prognostic implications of PRAME IHC in UM.

Copyright © 2022 by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000524051
PMCID: PMC9218614
PMID: 35959159

Conflict of interest statement: All authors: no reported conflicts.


459. Am J Surg Pathol. 2022 Nov 1;46(11):1467-1476. doi: 
10.1097/PAS.0000000000001944. Epub 2022 Aug 16.

PRAME Expression in Cancer. A Systematic Immunohistochemical Study of >5800 
Epithelial and Nonepithelial Tumors.

Kaczorowski M(1)(2), Chłopek M(1), Kruczak A(3), Ryś J(3), Lasota J(1), 
Miettinen M(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Pathology, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, Wroclaw Medical 
University, Wrocław.
(3)Department of Tumor Pathology, Maria Skłodowska-Curie National Research 
Institute of Oncology, Cracow Branch, Poland.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is considered a useful 
marker in the differential diagnosis between malignant melanoma and its 
melanocytic mimics. Recently PRAME expression was documented in nonmelanocytic 
tumors, but much of the data are based on mRNA studies. This investigation 
evaluated PRAME expression in the spectrum of normal tissues and >5800 human 
tumors using immunohistochemistry and EP461 monoclonal antibody. In normal 
tissues, PRAME was expressed in the testis and proliferative endometrium. In 
tumors, PRAME was variably expressed in malignancies of different lineages. 
Among epithelial tumors, >50% of PRAME-positive lesions were found among 
endometrial carcinomas (82%), uterine serous carcinomas (82%), uterine 
carcinosarcomas (60%), ovarian clear cell carcinomas (90%), ovarian serous 
carcinomas (63%), adenoid cystic carcinomas (81%), seminomas (78%), thymic 
carcinomas (75%), and basal cell carcinomas (62%). In mesenchymal and 
neuroectodermal malignancies, PRAME was frequently expressed in synovial sarcoma 
(71%), myxoid liposarcoma (76%), neuroblastoma (61%) and metastatic melanoma 
(87%). Also, PRAME was consistently expressed in 4 melanomas that lacked all 
melanoma markers including S100 protein and SOX10 but harbored typical for 
melanoma BRAF or NRAS driver mutations. However, strong and diffuse PRAME 
immunoreactivity was seen in many types of nonmelanocytic poorly differentiated 
carcinomas and sarcomas. Based on this study, PRAME is a relatively unspecific 
immunohistochemical marker, which limits its use in diagnostic surgical 
pathology. However, immunohistochemistry is a reliable and unexpensive method 
useful in detecting PRAME-positive malignancies for potential immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000001944
PMCID: PMC9588667
PMID: 35973038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest and Source of Funding: The 
authors have disclosed that they have no significant relationships with, or 
financial interest in, any commercial companies pertaining to this article.


460. Blood Adv. 2023 Apr 11;7(7):1178-1189. doi:
10.1182/bloodadvances.2022008304.

Therapeutic targeting of PRAME with mTCRCAR T cells in acute myeloid leukemia.

Kirkey DC(1)(2), Loeb AM(1), Castro S(1), McKay CN(1), Perkins L(1), Pardo L(3), 
Leonti AR(1), Tang TT(1), Loken MR(3), Brodersen LE(3), Loeb KR(1), Scheinberg 
DA(4), Le Q(1), Meshinchi S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Research, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Center, Seattle, WA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of Washington, Seattle, WA.
(3)Hematologics Inc, Seattle, WA.
(4)Molecular Pharmacology Program, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New 
York, NY.

Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME), a cancer-testis antigen, 
provides an ideal target for immunotherapy in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). We 
have shown expression of PRAME in a significant subset of childhood and adult 
AML and lack of expression in normal hematopoiesis. Although an intracellular 
antigen, we developed a novel approach to target PRAME using a chimeric antigen 
receptor (CAR) construct encoding a targeting domain based on T-cell receptor 
(TCR) mimic antibodies that target the peptide-HLA complex. We used the antibody 
sequence from a previously designed TCR mimic (mTCR) antibody, Pr20, that 
recognizes the PRAME ALY peptide in complex with HLA-A∗02 and verified 
expression of PRAME in AML cell lines and primary AML blasts. Using the Pr20 
antibody sequence, we developed CAR T cells (PRAME mTCRCAR T) to be tested 
against primary samples from patients with AML and AML cell lines that express 
the PRAME antigen in the context of HLA-A2 expression. In contrast to 
appropriate controls, PRAME mTCRCAR T cells demonstrate target-specific and 
HLA-mediated in vitro activity in OCI-AML2 and THP-1 cell lines, HLA-A2 cell 
lines expressing the PRAME antigen, and against primary AML patient samples. 
In vivo cell-derived xenograft models treated with PRAME mTCRCAR T cells 
demonstrated potent leukemia clearance and improved survival compared with 
unmodified T-cell controls. Furthermore, the cytolytic activity of PRAME mTCRCAR 
T cells was enhanced by treating the target cells with interferon gamma, which 
increases PRAME antigen expression. These results demonstrate the feasibility 
and efficacy of targeting PRAME with novel PRAME mTCRCAR T cells.

© 2023 by The American Society of Hematology. Licensed under Creative Commons 
Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0), 
permitting only noncommercial, nonderivative use with attribution. All other 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1182/bloodadvances.2022008304
PMCID: PMC10111362
PMID: 35984639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict-of-interest disclosure: M.R.L. and 
L.E.B. are employees of and have equity ownership in Hematologics Inc. L. Pardo 
is an employee of Hematologics Inc. D.A.S. is on a board of, or has equity in, 
or income from Lantheus, Sellas, Iovance Biotherapeutics, Pfizer, Actinium 
Pharmaceuticals, OncoPep, Repertoire, Sapience, CoImmune, and Eureka 
Therapeutics.


461. J Pathol Clin Res. 2022 Nov;8(6):579-581. doi: 10.1002/cjp2.293. Epub 2022
Aug  20.

PRAME protein expression in DICER1-related tumours.

Thorner PS(1), Chong AS(2)(3)(4), Nadaf J(2)(3), Benlimame N(5), Marrano P(6), 
Chami R(1)(6), Fu L(7), Foulkes WD(2)(3)(4)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathobiology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(3)Cancer Axis, Lady Davis Institute for Medical Research, Jewish General 
Hospital, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(4)Cancer Research Program, Research Institute of the McGill University Health 
Centre, Montreal, QC, Canada.
(5)Research Pathology Facility, Lady Davis Institute, Jewish General Hospital, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(6)Division of Pathology, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(7)Department of Pathology, McGill University Health Centre, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(8)Gerald Bronfman Department of Oncology, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
Canada.

Erratum for
    J Pathol Clin Res. 2022 May;8(3):294-304.

DOI: 10.1002/cjp2.293
PMCID: PMC9535095
PMID: 35986592


462. Pathology. 2022 Dec;54(7):863-873. doi: 10.1016/j.pathol.2022.05.012. Epub
2022  Jul 31.

Diagnostic utility of PRAME, p53 and 5-hmC immunostaining for distinguishing 
melanomas from naevi, neurofibromas, scars and other histological mimics.

Rawson RV(1), Shteinman ER(2), Ansar S(3), Vergara IA(2), Thompson JF(4), Long 
GV(5), Scolyer RA(6), Wilmott JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; Department of Tissue Pathology and Diagnostic Oncology, Royal 
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia; NSW Health Pathology, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia.
(2)Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; Charles Perkins Centre, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(3)Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Department of Tissue Pathology and Diagnostic Oncology, Royal Prince 
Alfred Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia; NSW Health Pathology, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.
(4)Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; Department of Melanoma and Surgical Oncology, Royal Prince 
Alfred Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; Royal North Shore and Mater Hospitals, Sydney, NSW, Australia; 
Charles Perkins Centre, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(6)Melanoma Institute Australia, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Faculty of Medicine and Health, The University of Sydney, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; Department of Tissue Pathology and Diagnostic Oncology, Royal 
Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia; NSW Health Pathology, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia; Charles Perkins Centre, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia. Electronic address: Richard.Scolyer@health.nsw.gov.au.

High expression of PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) and p53 
(a proposed marker of desmoplastic melanoma) and low expression of 
5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5-hmC) have each been reported in melanoma. However, 
their combined diagnostic utility for distinguishing melanomas, including 
uncommon variants, from histological mimics is unknown. This study sought to 
determine the utility of PRAME, p53 and 5-hmC immunostains for diagnosing 
melanocytic tumours. A total of 333 cutaneous melanocytic tumours (melanoma 
n=280, naevi n=53), 20 cutaneous neurofibromas, and 15 scars were evaluated 
using multiplex immunofluorescence (n=313) or single-plex chromogenic 
immunohistochemical staining (n=55). Immunostaining for PRAME and 5-hmC were 
each scored using a previously described semiquantitative scale 0 (absent) to 4+ 
(diffuse). p53 was scored using a previously described immunoreactive score 
(range 0-300). PRAME expression was significantly higher in melanomas than in 
naevi (p<0.0001), with the lowest PRAME expression found in low-grade 
desmoplastic melanomas compared to the other melanoma subtypes. In 
non-desmoplastic melanomas, 38% showed 4+ staining (>75% positive tumour cells) 
and 70% showed 3+ or 4+(>50% positive tumour cells). Conversely, 96% of naevi 
showed 0, 1+ or 2+ expression. 5-hmC expression was significantly lower in 
melanomas than in naevi (p<0.0001). However, acral melanomas were not 
significantly associated with loss of 5-hmC expression (p=0.84). Compared with 
using PRAME in isolation, combining PRAME and 5-hmC scores increased sensitivity 
(64%-84%) for detecting melanoma. With respect to desmoplastic melanoma compared 
to scar or neurofibroma, strong PRAME or p53 staining were almost exclusively 
found in high-grade desmoplastic melanomas; low-grade desmoplastic melanomas, 
neurofibromas and scars were negative. 5-hmC was not useful in distinguishing 
desmoplastic melanomas from neurofibromas or scars. Our data support the use of 
PRAME as a highly specific ancillary investigation in the diagnosis of melanoma, 
however PRAME should be considered 'positive' if there is 3+ or 4+ staining 
(rather than the widely recommended 4+ threshold). 5-hmC, PRAME and p53 appear 
to have a limited role in the diagnosis of low-grade desmoplastic melanomas.

Crown Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2022.05.012
PMID: 35987723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2023 Jan;37(1):e49-e51. doi:
10.1111/jdv.18536.  Epub 2022 Sep 3.

The influence of PRAME immunohistochemistry on the diagnosis, diagnostic 
confidence and treatment recommendation by dermatopathologists: A single 
institution prospective survey-based study.

Dang LT(1), Rybak I(2), Lyu Y(3), Konia T(1)(2), Fung MA(1)(2), Qi L(4), Kiuru 
M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of California, 
Davis, Sacramento, California, USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, 
California, USA.
(3)Department of Statistics, University of California, Davis, Sacramento, 
California, USA.
(4)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of California, Davis, 
Sacramento, California, USA.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.18536
PMCID: PMC9771982
PMID: 35989583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


464. Histopathology. 2022 Dec;81(6):808-817. doi: 10.1111/his.14793. Epub 2022
Sep  23.

Hyperplastic melanocytes with chromosomal aberrations in surrounding skin of 
subungual melanoma: fluorescence in situ hybridisation analysis using 
whole-slide digital imaging.

Shojiguchi N(1), Takai S(2), Arai E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Saitama Medical University International Medical 
Center, Saitama, Japan.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Saitama Medical University, Saitama, Japan.

AIMS: Subungual melanoma (SUM) is increasingly being treated with conservative 
surgery. Consequently, the evaluation of the resection margins has increased in 
importance. However, in several cases it is difficult to distinguish the in-situ 
lesion of SUM from hyperplastic melanocytes in the surrounding skin. We examined 
whether PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) 
immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) labelling of 
CCND1 (11q13), RREB1 (6p25), MYB (6q23), and centromere 6 (CEP6) genes 
differentiated SUM from hyperplastic melanocytes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We reviewed specimens of 36 SUM cases and compared PRAME 
immunostains of invasive melanoma, melanoma in situ, and hyperplastic 
melanocytes. PRAME-positive cases accounted for 90.5% of invasive melanoma, 
88.9% of in situ melanoma, and 59.4% of hyperplastic melanocyte specimens. While 
invasive and in situ melanomas in more than half of the examined cases were 
diffusely positive, this was found for only 9.4% of hyperplastic melanocyte 
cases. Four-coloured FISH using whole-slide digital imaging was used to analyse 
positive detection rates and changes in chromosomal aberrations. The FISH 
positive detection rate was 100% in invasive melanomas, 94.7% in melanomas 
in situ, and 66.7% in hyperplastic melanocytes. The number of RREB1 (6p25) 
signals per cell was significantly amplified following tumour progression.
CONCLUSION: Hyperplastic melanocytes in the surrounding skin of SUM, considered 
morphologically non-neoplastic, showed chromosomal aberrations similar to those 
in melanoma. Such cells are also thought similar to the field cells of acral 
melanomas. Thus, whole-slide digital imaging is a technique that allows the 
evaluation of individual melanocyte lesions by FISH.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.14793
PMID: 36094779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Histopathology. 2022 Dec;81(6):818-825. doi: 10.1111/his.14797. Epub 2022
Sep  28.

PRAME expression in spindle cell melanoma, malignant peripheral nerve sheath 
tumour, and other cutaneous sarcomatoid neoplasms: a comparative analysis.

Hrycaj SM(1), Szczepanski JM(1), Zhao L(2), Siddiqui J(1), Thomas DG(1), Lucas 
DR(1), Patel RM(1)(3), Harms PW(1)(3), Bresler SC(1)(3), Chan MP(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Diagnosis of spindle cell/sarcomatoid melanoma may be challenging due to 
frequent loss of expression of melanocytic marker(s) and histomorphologic 
resemblance to various mesenchymal tumours, particularly malignant peripheral 
nerve sheath tumour (MPNST). Overexpression of PReferentially expressed Antigen 
in MElanoma (PRAME) supports a diagnosis of melanoma when evaluating challenging 
melanocytic tumours. PRAME expression in MPNST and other cutaneous sarcomatoid 
neoplasms, however, has not been well characterised. We aimed to determine the 
utility of PRAME immunostain in distinguishing spindle cell melanoma from MPNST 
and other sarcomatoid mimics. PRAME expression was scored by extent (0 to 4+) 
and intensity (0 to 3) of staining. A strong positive correlation was observed 
between the extent and intensity scores (r = 0.84). An extent score of 4+, 
defined by staining in 76-100% of tumour cells, was seen in 56% (23/41) of 
spindle cell melanomas, 18% (7/38) of MPNSTs, 15% (4/27) of cutaneous 
sarcomatoid squamous cell carcinomas (SCCs), 33% (5/15) of poorly differentiated 
cutaneous angiosarcomas, 12% (4/33) of atypical fibroxanthomas (AFXs), 4% (1/25) 
of pleomorphic dermal sarcomas (PDSs), and none (0/16) of the high-grade 
cutaneous leiomyosarcomas. A significant difference was found between spindle 
cell melanoma and all other examined sarcomatoid neoplasms except angiosarcoma. 
While diffuse (and often strong) PRAME expression is more frequently observed in 
spindle cell melanoma than MPNST, sarcomatoid SCC, AFX, PDS, and high-grade 
leiomyosarcoma, its limited sensitivity and specificity caution against its use 
as a standalone diagnostic marker. PRAME may complement other epigenetic or 
lineage-specific markers and should only be used as part of an 
immunohistochemical panel when evaluating these sarcomatoid neoplasms.

© 2022 The Authors. Histopathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.14797
PMCID: PMC9828653
PMID: 36102613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


466. Diagnostics (Basel). 2022 Sep 9;12(9):2197. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics12092197.

PRAME Immunoexpression in 275 Cutaneous Melanocytic Lesions: A Double 
Institutional Experience.

Cazzato G(1), Cascardi E(2)(3), Colagrande A(1), Belsito V(4), Lospalluti L(5), 
Foti C(5), Arezzo F(6), Dellino M(6), Casatta N(7), Lupo C(7), Buongiorno L(8), 
Stellacci A(8), Marrone M(8), Ingravallo G(1), Maiorano E(1), Resta L(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Pathology, Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation 
(DETO), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, 10124 Turin, Italy.
(3)Pathology Unit, FPO-IRCCS Candiolo Cancer Institute, Str. Provinciale 142 Km 
3.95, 10060 Candiolo, Italy.
(4)Pathology Unit, Humanitas Research Hospital and Humanitas University, 20089 
Rozzano, Italy.
(5)Section of Dermatology and Venereology, Department of Biomedical Sciences and 
Human Oncology (DIMO), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.
(6)Section of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Department of Biomedical Sciences and 
Human Oncology (DIMO), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.
(7)Innovation Department, Diapath S.p.A., Via Savoldini n.71, 24057 Martinengo, 
Italy.
(8)Section of Legal Medicine, Interdisciplinary Department of Medicine, Bari 
Policlinico Hospital, University of Bari Aldo Moro, 70124 Bari, Italy.

In recent years, the preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has 
also been used in the histopathological diagnosis of melanocytic lesions, in 
order to understand if it could constitute a valid, inexpensive, and useful 
resource in dermatopathological fields. We performed a double-center study to 
evaluate whether the data on the usefulness and possible limitations of PRAME 
could also be confirmed by our group. From 1 December 2021 to 29 March 2022, we 
collected 275 cases of melanocytic lesions that were immunostained with PRAME 
(Ab219650) and rabbit monoclonal antibody (Abcam). To better correlate the PRAME 
expression with its nature (benign, uncertain potential for malignancy, or 
malignant), we categorized PRAME tumor cells' percentage positivity and 
intensity of immunostaining in a cumulative score obtained by adding the 
quartile of positive tumor cells (0, 1+, 2+, 3+, 4+) to the PRAME expression 
intensity in tumor cells (0, 1+, 2+, 3+). Of these 275 lesions, 136 were benign, 
12 were of uncertain potential for malignancy (MELTUMP or SAMPUS or SPARK 
nevus), and 127 were malignant. The immunoexpression of PRAME was completely 
negative in 125/136 benign lesions (91.9%), with only a few positive melanocytes 
(1+) and intensity 1+ in the remaining 11 cases (8.1%). Of the 127 cases of 
melanoma (superficial spreading, lentigo maligna, and pagetoid histotypes), 
PRAME was strongly positive in 104/127 cases (81.8%) with intensity 4+ and 3+. 
In 17 cases (13.3%; melanoma spindle and nevoid cell histotypes), PRAME was 
positive in percentage 2+ and with intensity ranging from 2+ to 3+. In 7 cases 
(5.5%) of desmoplastic melanoma, PRAME was 1+ positive and/or completely 
negative. Of the 12 cases of lesions with uncertain potential for malignancy, 
the immunoexpression of PRAME was much more heterogeneous and irregularly 
distributed throughout the lesion. These data are perfectly in agreement with 
the current literature, and they demonstrate that the reliability of PRAME is 
quite high, but its use cannot cause physicians to disregard the morphological 
information and the execution of other ancillary immunohistochemical stains such 
as Melan-A, HMB-45, MiTF, and SOX-10.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics12092197
PMCID: PMC9498170
PMID: 36140597

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


467. J Cutan Pathol. 2022 Dec;49(12):1011-1014. doi: 10.1111/cup.14334. Epub 2022
Oct  12.

Investigation of PRAME expression in lipid-laden and non-lipid-laden cutaneous 
histiocytes.

Fujimoto M(1), Jinnouchi K(1), Kaku Y(2), Hirata M(1), Nishitsuji K(3), Haga 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Kyoto University Hospital, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Kyoto University Hospital, Kyoto, Japan.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Wakayama Medical University, 
Wakayama, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14334
PMID: 36149230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Histopathology. 2023 Jan;82(2):285-295. doi: 10.1111/his.14814. Epub 2022
Oct  13.

PRAME is a useful marker for the differential diagnosis of melanocytic tumours 
and histological mimics.

Chen YP(1), Zhang WW(1), Qiu YT(1), Ke LF(2), Chen H(3), Chen G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Clinical Oncology School of Fujian Medical 
University and Fujian Cancer Hospital, Fuzhou.
(2)Laboratory of Molecular Pathology, Clinical Oncology School of Fujian Medical 
University and Fujian Cancer Hospital, Fuzhou.
(3)Department of Pathology, Hospital for Skin Diseases, Institute of 
Dermatology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical 
College, Nanjing, China.

AIMS: Although the morphological assessment of melanoma is generally 
straightforward, diagnosis can be especially difficult when the significant 
morphological and immunohistochemical results overlap with those of benign and 
malignant melanocytic tumours and histological mimics. This study assessed the 
potential diagnostic utility of measuring PReferentially expressed Antigen in 
MElanoma (PRAME) immunohistochemically in naevi, melanomas and clear cell 
sarcomas (CCSs) in Chinese patients.
METHODS: We examined the immunohistochemical expression of PRAME in 317 
melanocytic naevi, 178 primary melanomas, 72 metastatic melanomas and 19 CCSs 
and compared the sensitivity and specificity of PRAME immunohistochemistry (IHC) 
in the differential diagnosis of melanocytic tumours and histological mimics.
RESULTS: Of the 317 melanocytic naevi, 98.1%were completely negative for PRAME; 
six cases showed focal PRAME immunoreactivity in a minor population of lesional 
melanocytes. Diffuse nuclear immunoreactivity for PRAME was found in 89.9% of 
primary melanomas and 93.1% of metastatic melanomas. Regarding melanoma 
subtypes, PRAME was expressed in 100% of superficial spreading melanomas, 100% 
of melanomas arise in congenital naevus, 91.4% of nodular melanomas, 87.8% of 
acral lentigo melanomas, 80.0% of lentigo malignant melanomas, 60.0% of Spitz 
melanomas, 96.2% of mucosal melanomas and 80.0% of uveal melanomas. None of the 
two desmoplastic melanomas expressed PRAME. Of the 19 CCS cases, 89.5% were 
negative for PRAME and 10.5% showed focal weak PRAME immunoreactivity in a minor 
population of tumour cells.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that PRAME may be a useful marker to support 
a suspected diagnosis of melanoma. In addition, lack of PRAME expression is a 
valuable hint to CCS in a suspected case, and then molecular confirmation of the 
presence of EWSR1 rearrangement is necessary.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.14814
PMID: 36200756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Front Immunol. 2022 Sep 29;13:999298. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.999298. 
eCollection 2022.

Peripheral blood marker of residual acute leukemia after hematopoietic cell 
transplantation using multi-plex digital droplet PCR.

Stanojevic M(1), Grant M(2), Vesely SK(3), Knoblach S(4), Kanakry CG(5), 
Nazarian J(4)(6), Panditharatna E(7), Panchapakesan K(4), Gress RE(5), 
Holter-Chakrabarty J(3), Williams KM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, 
DC, United States.
(2)Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, 
Emory University, Atlanta, GA, United States.
(3)Stephenson Cancer Center, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma, OK, United States.
(4)Children's Research Institute, Research Center for Genetic Medicine, 
Children's National Health System, Washington, DC, United States.
(5)Experimental Transplantation and Immunotherapy Branch, National Cancer 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, United States.
(6)Department of Oncology, Children's Research Center, University Children's 
Hospital Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(7)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Boston Children's Cancer and 
Blood Disorders Center, Boston, MA, United States.

BACKGROUND: Relapse remains the primary cause of death after hematopoietic cell 
transplantation (HCT) for acute leukemia. The ability to identify 
minimal/measurable residual disease (MRD) via the blood could identify patients 
earlier when immunologic interventions may be more successful. We evaluated a 
new test that could quantify blood tumor mRNA as leukemia MRD surveillance using 
droplet digital PCR (ddPCR).
METHODS: The multiplex ddPCR assay was developed using tumor cell lines positive 
for the tumor associated antigens (TAA: WT1, PRAME, BIRC5), with homeostatic 
ABL1. On IRB-approved protocols, RNA was isolated from mononuclear cells from 
acute leukemia patients after HCT (n = 31 subjects; n = 91 specimens) and 
healthy donors (n = 20). ddPCR simultaneously quantitated mRNA expression of 
WT1, PRAME, BIRC5, and ABL1 and the TAA/ABL1 blood ratio was measured in 
patients with and without active leukemia after HCT.
RESULTS: Tumor cell lines confirmed quantitation of TAAs. In patients with 
active acute leukemia after HCT (MRD+ or relapse; n=19), the blood levels of 
WT1/ABL1, PRAME/ABL1, and BIRC5/ABL1 exceeded healthy donors (p<0.0001, 
p=0.0286, and p=0.0064 respectively). Active disease status was associated with 
TAA positivity (1+ TAA vs 0 TAA) with an odds ratio=10.67, (p=0.0070, 95% 
confidence interval 1.91 - 59.62). The area under the curve is 0.7544. Changes 
in ddPCR correlated with disease response captured on standard of care tests, 
accurately denoting positive or negative disease burden in 15/16 (95%). Of 
patients with MRD+ or relapsed leukemia after HCT, 84% were positive for at 
least one TAA/ABL1 in the peripheral blood. In summary, we have developed a new 
method for blood MRD monitoring of leukemia after HCT and present preliminary 
data that the TAA/ABL1 ratio may may serve as a novel surrogate biomarker for 
relapse of acute leukemia after HCT.

Copyright © 2022 Stanojevic, Grant, Vesely, Knoblach, Kanakry, Nazarian, 
Panditharatna, Panchapakesan, Gress, Holter-Chakrabarty and Williams.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2022.999298
PMCID: PMC9556966
PMID: 36248870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


470. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Feb;50(2):155-168. doi: 10.1111/cup.14342. Epub 2022
Nov 4.

Combined utility of p16 and BRAF V600E in the evaluation of spitzoid tumors: 
Superiority to PRAME and correlation with FISH.

McAfee JL(1), Scarborough R(2), Jia XS(3), Azzato EM(4), Astbury C(4), Ronen 
S(1), Andea AA(5), Billings SD(1), Ko JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Pathology and Laboratory Medicine 
Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(2)Affiliated Dermatology, Dublin, Ohio, USA.
(3)Quantitative Health Sciences, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(4)Department of Molecular Pathology and Cytogenetics, Pathology and Laboratory 
Medicine Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(5)Department of Molecular Genetic Pathology and Dermatopathology, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

BACKGROUND: Spitzoid melanocytic neoplasms are diagnostically challenging; 
criteria for malignancy continue to evolve. The ability to predict chromosomal 
abnormalities with immunohistochemistry (IHC) could help select cases requiring 
chromosomal evaluation.
METHODS: Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)-tested spitzoid neoplasms at 
our institution (2013-2021) were reviewed. p16, BRAF V600E, and preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) IHC results were correlated with FISH.
RESULTS: A total of 174 cases (1.9F:1M, median age 28 years; range, 
5 months-74 years) were included; final diagnoses: Spitz nevus (11%), atypical 
Spitz tumor (47%), spitzoid dysplastic nevus (9%), and spitzoid melanoma (32%). 
Sixty (34%) were FISH positive, most commonly with absolute 6p25 gain 
(RREB1 > 2). Dermal mitotic count was the only clinicopathologic predictor of 
FISH. Among IHC-stained cases, p16 was lost in 55 of 134 cases (41%); loss 
correlated with FISH positive (p < 0.001, Fisher exact test). BRAF V600E (14/88, 
16%) and PRAME (15/56, 27%) expression did not correlate with FISH alone 
(p = 0.242 and p = 0.359, respectively, Fisher exact test). When examined 
together, however, p16-retained/BRAF V600E-negative lesions had low 
FISH-positive rates (5/37, 14%; 4/37, 11% not counting isolated MYB loss); all 
other marker combinations had high rates (56%-75% of cases; p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: p16/BRAF V600E IHC predicts FISH results. "Low-risk" lesions (p16+ 
/BRAF V600E- ) uncommonly have meaningful FISH abnormalities (11%). PRAME may 
have limited utility in this setting.

© 2022 The Authors. Journal of Cutaneous Pathology published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14342
PMCID: PMC10099989
PMID: 36261329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


471. Hum Cell. 2023 Jan;36(1):342-352. doi: 10.1007/s13577-022-00808-z. Epub 2022
Oct  25.

Diagnostic utility of immunohistochemistry in concordance with mRNA analysis of 
PRAME in the stratification of high-risk uveal melanoma patients.

Kumar N(#)(1), Singh MK(#)(2), Singh L(3), Lomi N(4), Meel R(4), Pushker N(4), 
Sen S(1), Kashyap S(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ocular Pathology, Dr. R. P. Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All 
India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
India. lata.aiims@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Dr. R. P. Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All 
India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
(5)Department of Ocular Pathology, Dr. R. P. Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences, All 
India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India. seemakashyap65@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Existing clinical indicators for metastatic risk classification and patient 
treatment of uveal melanoma (UM) in the Asian population are limited. 
Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) has gained attention in the 
prognosis of cancers and considered as a potential biomarker in many tumors 
including UM. Therefore, this study investigated the expression of PRAME and its 
association with loss of nuclear BAP1 (nBAP1) as well as its correlation with 
clinicopathological parameters and patient outcome. Immunohistochemical 
expression of PRAME and BAP1 proteins were assessed in 66 prospective cases of 
UM. mRNA expression level was measured by quantitative real-time PCR. 
Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox proportional hazard models were used to analyze the 
correlation of protein expression with clinicopathological parameters, 
metastasis-free survival and overall survival. Nuclear PRAME (nPRAME) expression 
and loss of nBAP1 were observed in 24 and 62% cases, respectively. PRAME mRNA 
expression level was found to be upregulated in 64% (7/11) of metastatic 
patients. mRNA and immunoexpression of nPRAME were statistically significant 
with many clinicopathological high-risk factors. On univariate and multivariate 
analyses, high mitotic activity, extraocular invasion and presence of nPRAME 
expression were statistically significant (p < 0.05). On Kaplan-Meier survival 
analysis, patients expressing PRAME had significantly reduced metastasis-free 
survival (MFS) and overall survival (OS). MFS and OS were also reduced in 
patients expressing PRAME along with loss of nBAP1. Our data show that nPRAME 
expression, in combination with loss of nBAP1, could be a useful predictive 
biomarker in the therapeutic management of UM patients at high risk.

© 2022. The Author(s) under exclusive licence to Japan Human Cell Society.

DOI: 10.1007/s13577-022-00808-z
PMID: 36282437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Genes (Basel). 2022 Sep 27;13(10):1745. doi: 10.3390/genes13101745.

Identification of Cdk8 and Cdkn2d as New Prame-Target Genes in 2C-like Embryonic 
Stem Cells.

Lucci V(1)(2), De Marino E(1), Tagliaferri D(3), Amente S(4), Pollice A(1), 
Calabrò V(1), Vivo M(5), Falco G(1)(2)(3), Angrisano T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Naples "Federico II", 80147 Naples, 
Italy.
(2)IEOS-CNR, Institute of Experimental Endocrinology and Oncology "G. 
Salvatore"-National Research Council, 80131 Naples, Italy.
(3)Biogem Scarl, Istituto di Ricerche Genetiche "Gaetano Salvatore", 83031 
Ariano Irpino, Italy.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnology, University of 
Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples, Italy.
(5)Department of Chemistry and Biology, University of Salerno, 84084 Fisciano, 
Italy.

Embryonic stem cells (ESCs) present a characteristic pluripotency heterogeneity 
correspondent to specific metastates. We recently demonstrated that retinoic 
acid (RA) induces an increase in a specific 2C-like metastate marked by target 
genes specific to the two-cell embryo stage in preimplantation. Prame 
(Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma) is one of the principal actors of 
the pluripotency stage with a specific role in RA responsiveness. Additionally, 
PRAME is overexpressed in a variety of cancers, but its molecular functions are 
poorly understood. To further investigate Prame's downstream targets, we used a 
chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) assay in RA-enriched 2C-like 
metastates and identified two specific target genes, Cdk8 and Cdkn2d, bound by 
Prame. These two targets, involved in cancer dedifferentiation and pluripotency, 
have been further validated in RA-resistant ESCs. Here, we observed for the 
first time that Prame controls the Cdk8 and Cdkn2d genes in ESCs after RA 
treatment, shedding light on the regulatory network behind the establishment of 
naïve pluripotency.

DOI: 10.3390/genes13101745
PMCID: PMC9601988
PMID: 36292630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interest exist.


473. Klin Lab Diagn. 2022 Oct 14;67(10):613-620. doi: 
10.51620/0869-2084-2022-67-10-613-620.

Study of mRNA of WT1, BAALC, EVI1, PRAME and HMGA2 genes in whole blood samples.

[Article in English]

Olkhovskiy IA(1)(2), Gorbenko AS(1)(2), Stolyar MA(1)(2), Bakhtina VI(3)(4), 
Mikhalev MA(3), Olkhovik TI(3), Sudarikov AB(5), Sidorova YS(5), Pospelova 
TI(6), Kolesnikova MA(6), Kaporskaya TS(7), Lyskova VA(7).

Author information:
(1)Krasnoyarsk branch of the «National Research Center for Hematology» 
Department of Health.
(2)Federal Research Center Krasnoyarsk Scientific Center of the Siberian Branch 
of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
(3)Krasnoyarsk regional clinic Hospital.
(4)Prof. V.F. Voino-Yasenetsky Krasnoyarsk State Medical University.
(5)«National Research Center for Hematology» Department of Health.
(6)Novosibirsk State Medical University.
(7)State-financed health care institution Irkutsk regional clinical hospital.

Simultaneous quantitative measurement of mRNA of the WT1, BAALC, EVI1, PRAME and 
HMGA2 genes in whole blood samples reflects the specific pathological 
proliferative activity in acute leukemia and their ratio is promising as a 
diagnostic marker. The transcriptome profile of acute leukemia cells is usually 
assessed using NGS or microarray techniques after a preliminary procedure for 
isolation of mononuclear cells. However, the results of using the multiplex PCR 
reaction for the simultaneous determination of all above mRNAs in whole blood 
samples have not been published so far. Determination of mRNA of WT1, BAALC, 
EVI1, PRAME and HMGA2 genes in venous blood level samples by multiplex RT-PCR. 
The study included 127 blood samples from patients who diagnosis of acute 
leukemia was subsequently confirmed. In the comparison group, 87 samples of 
patients without oncohematological diagnosis were selected, including 31 samples 
(K1) with a normal blood formula and 56 samples (K2) with a violation of the 
cellular composition - anemia, leukocytosis and thrombocytopenia. RNA isolation 
and reverse transcription were performed using the Ribozol-D and Reverta-L kits 
(TsNIIE, Russia). Determination of the mRNA expression level of the WT1, BAALC, 
EVI1, PRAME and HMGA2 genes by multiplex real-time PCR using a homemade 
multiplex PCR kit. The mRNA level was characterized by high interindividual 
variation and did not correlate with the rate of circulating leukocytes or blood 
blasts. Expression of WT1 mRNA was observed in whole blood only in one patient 
from the control group and in 112 (88%) patients with leukemia and was combined 
with a decrease in the level of HMGA2 mRNA expression and BAALC mRNA values. In 
contrast to the control groups, patients with leukemia had higher levels of 
BAALC mRNA in AML and ALL, increased PRAME mRNA in AML and APL, but lower levels 
of HMGA2 in APL.

DOI: 10.51620/0869-2084-2022-67-10-613-620
PMID: 36315178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


474. An Bras Dermatol. 2023 Jan-Feb;98(1):128-130. doi:
10.1016/j.abd.2022.02.002.  Epub 2022 Nov 8.

The texture of collagen and immunoexpression of PRAME in dysplastic nevus 
syndrome lesions: relationship with melanoma.

Costa PRM(1), Vieira-Damiani G(2), Stelini RF(1), Ferreira LÁ(3), Cintra ML(4), 
Teixeira F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Estadual 
de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(2)Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia de São Paulo, Capivari, 
SP, Brazil.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas, Universidade 
Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil.
(4)Department of Pathology, Faculdade de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Estadual 
de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: marialet@fcm.unicamp.br.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abd.2022.02.002
PMCID: PMC9837641
PMID: 36369201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Am J Dermatopathol. 2022 Dec 1;44(12):989-1002. doi: 
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002310. Epub 2022 Nov 2.

Genetic Studies on a Case of Eruptive Disseminated Spitz Nevus and Review of 
Other 33 Cases.

Fernandez-Flores A(1)(2)(3), Cassarino D(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Histopathology, University Hospital El Bierzo, Ponferrada, 
Spain.
(2)Department of Cellular Pathology, Hospital de la Reina, Ponferrada, Spain.
(3)Research Department, Institute for Biomedical Research of A Coruña (INIBIC), 
University of A Coruña (UDC), A Coruña, Spain; and.
(4)Departments of Pathology and Dermatology, Los Angeles Medical Center (LAMC), 
Southern California Kaiser Permanente, Los Angeles, CA.

Eruptive disseminated Spitz nevus is an uncommon presentation of Spitz nevi. 
Only a few tens of cases have been published and only 6 of them have genetic 
studies. We present an additional case of a 29-year-old woman with dozens of 
Spitz nevi which had appeared since she was aged 10 years. The nevi were located 
on arms, inner thighs, legs, and buttocks. Nine of them were biopsied. Four 
presented severe atypia. Immunohistochemistry was performed on 5 of the biopsied 
specimens and was negative for PRAME, ROS-1, PDL-1, pan-TRK, and ALK. Molecular 
studies on the largest lesion demonstrated no NTRK1, NTRK2, or NTRK3 fusions. 
FISH study for PTEN showed no alteration in that same lesion. Next-generation 
sequencing was also negative for any detectable mutations in numerous genes 
analyzed. In conclusion, it seems reasonable to be cautious when evaluating 
atypia, even if severe, in cases of eruptive disseminated Spitz nevus.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002310
PMID: 36395454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


476. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Mar;50(3):275-278. doi: 10.1111/cup.14361. Epub 2022
Dec 2.

PRAME immunohistochemistry is useful in differentiating oral melanomas from nevi 
and melanotic macules.

Schmitt TA(1)(2), Lee JC(1)(2), Martinka M(1)(2), Ko KYC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, The University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Vancouver General Hospital, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Oral melanocytic neoplasms pose a diagnostic challenge to 
pathologists owing to their rarity relative to those in the skin. The utility of 
PRAME in distinguishing nevi from melanomas has been established in the skin, 
but limited information exists regarding its usefulness in the oral cavity.
METHODS: Thirty-five previously diagnosed pigmented oral lesions were 
retrospectively evaluated with PRAME. The lesions consisted of 16 oral nevi, 10 
melanomas, and 10 melanotic macules.
RESULTS: Strong and diffuse nuclear PRAME staining was observed in all but one 
of the oral melanomas, which showed no staining. No nuclear PRAME staining was 
observed in any of the oral nevi or melanotic macules.
CONCLUSIONS: PRAME is a useful tool in the evaluation of oral melanocytic 
neoplasms. Our data indicate that PRAME is a highly specific but incompletely 
sensitive marker of oral melanoma. Larger studies could further illuminate the 
diagnostic value of PRAME in oral lesions.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14361
PMID: 36398487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Mar;50(3):247-258. doi: 10.1111/cup.14373. Epub 2022
Dec  21.

FLI-1/Melan-A dual stain is an alternative to PRAME in differentiating 
metastatic melanoma from nodal nevus: A monocentric retrospective study.

Zengin HB(1), Yildiz B(1), Pukhalskaya T(1), Smoller BR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, University of Rochester 
Medical Center, Rochester, New York, USA.

Melanocytic nevi existing in lymph nodes create a diagnostic challenge by 
mimicking metastases. PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) 
immunohistochemical (IHC) stain can differentiate one from another. FLI-1 IHC 
expression has been shown in malignant melanoma with variable sensitivity while 
melanocytic nevi were reported to be negative. We hypothesized that 
FLI-1/Melan-A dual IHC staining may be used in the distinction of metastatic 
melanoma from nodal nevi and can be an alternative and/or complementary to 
PRAME. In this study, we examined 13 lymph nodes with metastatic melanoma and 13 
lymph nodes with benign deposits. We stained all of the lymph nodes with FLI-1, 
FLI-1/Melan-A dual, and PRAME IHC stains. In addition, we stained paired skin 
samples of the metastatic lymph nodes with FLI-1 and PRAME. In primary cutaneous 
melanomas, 11 of 13 were positive for FLI-1 and PRAME expression (85%). 
Malignant cells in 12 and 13 lymph nodes showed positive expression of PRAME and 
FLI-1, respectively. Only one case with a nevic cell deposit was weakly positive 
for FLI-1 and the remaining benign cases were negative for both FLI-1 and PRAME. 
Our results show that FLI-1/Melan-A dual stain is as sensitive and specific as 
PRAME in distinguishing lymph nodes with metastatic melanoma from nodal nevi. 
Further studies with larger case numbers are needed to support our significant 
results.

© 2022 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14373
PMID: 36454046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Pathol Int. 2023 Jan;73(1):27-36. doi: 10.1111/pin.13292. Epub 2022 Dec 5.

Performance of PRAME immunohistochemistry compared with that of c-Kit, c-Myc, or 
cyclin D1 for the diagnosis of acral melanocytic tumors.

Jung JM(1), Lee MY(1), Won CH(1), Chang SE(1), Lee MW(1), Lee WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Comment in
    Pathol Int. 2023 Jan;73(1):37-38.

The diagnostic role of preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) 
immunohistochemistry has not been thoroughly evaluated for acral melanocytic 
tumors. The objective of this study was to evaluate the utility of this modality 
for the diagnosis of acral melanocytic tumors compared with other potential 
markers. Melanocytic tumors were classified as either acral nevi, challenging 
melanocytic tumors (superficial atypical melanocytic proliferation of uncertain 
significance (SAMPUS)-favor benign (SAMPUS-FB), SAMPUS-favor malignant 
(SAMPUS-FM)) or acral melanomas. A total of 106 acral melanocytic tumors 
including acral nevi (n = 32), SAMPUS-FB (n = 17), SAMPUS-FM (n = 20), and acral 
melanomas (n = 37) were included. Diagnostic power, assessed using an area under 
the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) for distinguishing acral 
melanomas and acral nevi, was highest for PRAME (AUC = 0.997), followed by c-Myc 
(AUC = 0.755), cyclin D1 (AUC = 0.652), and c-Kit (AUC = 0.573). At a PRAME 
expression level ≥30% as a positive test for acral melanoma, the sensitivity and 
specificity of this marker for discriminating acral melanoma from acral nevus 
were 100% and 96.9%, respectively. PRAME immunohistochemistry also discriminated 
SAMPUS-FM from SAMPUS-FB with a sensitivity and specificity of 90.0% and 76.5%, 
respectively. In conclusion, PRAME immunohistochemistry can be used effectively 
to distinguish between various spectra of acral melanocytic neoplasms.

© 2022 Japanese Society of Pathology and John Wiley & Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pin.13292
PMID: 36468840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. J Clin Med. 2022 Nov 24;11(23):6936. doi: 10.3390/jcm11236936.

PRAME Immuno-Expression in Cutaneous Sebaceous Carcinoma: A Single Institutional 
Experience.

Cazzato G(1), Colagrande A(1), Ingravallo G(1), Lettini T(1), Filoni A(2), 
Ambrogio F(3), Bonamonte D(3), Dellino M(4), Lupo C(5), Casatta N(5), Resta 
L(1), Maiorano E(1), Cascardi E(6)(7), Marzullo A(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Pathology, Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation 
(DETO), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.
(2)Section of Dermatology, "Vito Fazzi" Hospital, 73100 Lecce, Italy.
(3)Section of Dermatology and Venereology, Department of Biomedical Sciences and 
Human Oncology (DIMO), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.
(4)Section of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Department of Biomedical Sciences and 
Human Oncology (DIMO), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", 70124 Bari, Italy.
(5)Innovation Department, Diapath S.p.A., Via Savoldini n. 71, 24057 Martinengo, 
Italy.
(6)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, 10124 Turin, Italy.
(7)Pathology Unit, FPO-IRCCS Candiolo Cancer Institute, 10060 Candiolo, Italy.

Background: In recent years, great research interest has been directed to the 
diagnostic, therapeutic and marker role of Preferentially expressed Antigen in 
Melanoma (PRAME) in the setting of various human neoplasms. Although it has been 
extensively studied mainly in the differential diagnosis setting of melanocytic 
pigmented lesions, still very few papers have analyzed the usefulness or 
otherwise of PRAME in the context of other non-melanoma skin cancers (NMSC). (2) 
Methods: In this paper, we report the data of our experience of 21 cases of 
sebaceous carcinoma (SC) classified in the three WHO grade and collected in the 
period between January 2005 and 31 October 2022, on which immunostaining for 
PRAME was performed; Non-parametric Mann−Whitney test for non-normally 
distributed values was performed. A comparison was made of the means between the 
three study groups (grade I, II and III). A value of p ≤ 0.05 was set as 
statistically significant (3) Results: Only seven cases (33.3%) were positive 
with an immunoscore of 2+/3+ for intensity and 1+/2+ for percentage cells 
positivity, while 14 cases (66.6%) were totally or nearly totally negative for 
PRAME with a few of sebaceous-like cells positive with an immunoscore of 1+. 
Eight cases of SC grade I were immunostaining for PRAME, a level of the 
cytoplasm of foci of sebaceous differentiation with a significant statical value 
(p < 0.0001) with respect to ten cases of SC grade II; furthermore, the eight 
cases of grade I were positive for PRAME in the same areas respect the 3 cases 
of SC grade III (p = 0.0303). There were no statistical significance between the 
10 cases of grade II and 3 cases of grade III (p = 0.2028); (4) Conclusions: 
PRAME not seems to add particular information in the case of histopathological 
diagnostics of SC where other markers, including adipophylline, can be quite 
indicative. It seems, on the other hand, that PRAME can be useful in the 
subclassification setting of sebaceous carcinoma in grades I−II−III according to 
the directives of the latest WHO 2018, highlighting the foci of mature sebaceous 
differentiation most present in grades 1−2 and almost completely absent in grade 
3 of the SC.

DOI: 10.3390/jcm11236936
PMCID: PMC9737380
PMID: 36498511

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


480. J Immunother Cancer. 2022 Dec;10(12):e005002. doi: 10.1136/jitc-2022-005002.

Epigenetic modulation of neuroblastoma enhances T cell and NK cell 
immunogenicity by inducing a tumor-cell lineage switch.

Cornel AM(1)(2), Dunnebach E(1)(2), Hofman DA(1), Das S(3)(4)(5), Sengupta 
S(3)(4), van den Ham F(1), Wienke J(1), Strijker JGM(1), van den Beemt 
DAMH(1)(2), Essing AHW(1), Koopmans B(1), Engels SAG(1), Lo Presti V(1)(2), 
Szanto CS(1), George RE(3)(4), Molenaar JJ(1), van Heesch S(1), Dierselhuis 
MP(1), Nierkens S(6)(2).

Author information:
(1)Prinses Maxima Centrum voor Kinderoncologie, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Center for Translational Immunology, Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(5)School of Biotechnology, KIIT University, Bhubaneswar, India.
(6)Prinses Maxima Centrum voor Kinderoncologie, Utrecht, The Netherlands 
S.Nierkens-2@prinsesmaximacentrum.nl.

BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy in high-risk neuroblastoma (HR-NBL) does not live up 
to its full potential due to inadequate (adaptive) immune engagement caused by 
the extensive immunomodulatory capacity of HR-NBL. We aimed to tackle one of the 
most notable immunomodulatory processes in neuroblastoma (NBL), absence of major 
histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) surface expression, a process greatly 
limiting cytotoxic T cell engagement. We and others have previously shown that 
MHC-I expression can be induced by cytokine-driven immune modulation. Here, we 
aimed to identify tolerable pharmacological repurposing strategies to upregulate 
MHC-I expression and therewith enhance T cell immunogenicity in NBL.
METHODS: Drug repurposing libraries were screened to identify compounds 
enhancing MHC-I surface expression in NBL cells using high-throughput flow 
cytometry analyses optimized for adherent cells. The effect of positive hits was 
confirmed in a panel of NBL cell lines and patient-derived organoids. 
Compound-treated NBL cell lines and organoids were cocultured with 
preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME)-reactive tumor-specific T 
cells and healthy-donor natural killer (NK) cells to determine the in vitro 
effect on T cell and NK cell cytotoxicity. Additional immunomodulatory effects 
of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) were identified by transcriptome and 
translatome analysis of treated organoids.
RESULTS: Drug library screening revealed MHC-I upregulation by inhibitor of 
apoptosis inhibitor (IAPi)- and HDACi drug classes. The effect of IAPi was 
limited due to repression of nuclear factor kappa B (NFκB) pathway activity in 
NBL, while the MHC-I-modulating effect of HDACi was widely translatable to a 
panel of NBL cell lines and patient-derived organoids. Pretreatment of NBL cells 
with the HDACi entinostat enhanced the cytotoxic capacity of tumor-specific T 
cells against NBL in vitro, which coincided with increased expression of 
additional players regulating T cell cytotoxicity (eg, TAP1/2 and 
immunoproteasome subunits). Moreover, MICA and MICB, important in NK cell 
cytotoxicity, were also increased by entinostat exposure. Intriguingly, this 
increase in immunogenicity was accompanied by a shift toward a more mesenchymal 
NBL cell lineage.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates the potential of combining (immuno)therapy 
with HDACi to enhance both T cell-driven and NKcell-driven immune responses in 
patients with HR-NBL.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jitc-2022-005002
PMCID: PMC9756225
PMID: 36521927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.481. Cell Tissue Res. 2023 Mar;391(3):577-594. doi: 10.1007/s00441-022-03717-7.
Epub  2022 Dec 17.

Role of the bovine PRAMEY protein in sperm function during in vitro 
fertilization (IVF).

Kern C(1), Wu W(1)(2), Lu C(1)(3), Zhang J(1)(4), Zhao Y(1)(5), Ocon-Grove 
OM(1)(6), Sutovsky P(7), Diaz F(1), Liu WS(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, Center for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 311 
AVBS Building, University Park, PA, 16802, USA.
(2)Animal Science Institute, Xinjiang Academy of Agriculture Science, Xinjiang, 
China.
(3)Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Animal Science, Tianjin Agriculture University, Tianjin, China.
(5)St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, Memphis, TN, USA.
(6)Actuated Medical, Inc., PA, Bellefonte, USA.
(7)Division of Animal Sciences, and Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology & 
Women's Health, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA.
(8)Department of Animal Science, Center for Reproductive Biology and Health 
(CRBH), College of Agricultural Sciences, The Pennsylvania State University, 311 
AVBS Building, University Park, PA, 16802, USA. wul12@psu.edu.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer/testis antigen 
(CTA) that is predominantly expressed in normal male gonad tissues and a variety 
of tumors. PRAME proteins are present in the acrosome and sperm tail, but their 
role in sperm function is unknown. The objective of this study was to examine 
the function of the bovine Y-linked PRAME (PRAMEY) during spermatozoal 
capacitation, the acrosome reaction (AR), and fertilization. Freshly ejaculated 
spermatozoa were induced to capacitate and undergo AR in vitro. Western blotting 
results revealed a decrease in the PRAMEY protein in capacitated spermatozoa, 
and the release of the PRAMEY protein from the acrosome during the AR, 
suggesting its involvement in sperm capacitation and AR. IVF was performed using 
in vitro matured bovine oocytes and cauda epididymal spermatozoa either treated 
with PRAMEY antibody, rabbit IgG, or DPBS. Sperm-egg binding and early embryos 
were examined at 6 and 45 h post IVF, respectively. The number of spermatozoa 
that bound per oocyte was nearly two-fold greater in the PRAMEY antibody 
treatment group (34.4) when compared to both the rabbit IgG (17.6) and DPBS 
(18.1) controls (P < 0.01). Polyspermy rate in the antibody-treated group 
(18.9%) was three-fold greater than the rabbit IgG control (6.0%) (P < 0.01). 
The results indicate that PRAMEY may play a role in anti-polyspermy defense. 
This study thus provides the initial evidence for the involvement of the PRAME 
protein family in sperm function and fertilization.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-022-03717-7
PMID: 36527485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Pathol Int. 2023 Jan;73(1):37-38. doi: 10.1111/pin.13298. Epub 2022 Dec 28.

Editorial Comment on "Performance of PRAME immunohistochemistry compared with 
that of c-Kit, c-Myc, or cyclin D1 for the diagnosis of acral melanocytic 
tumors".

Izumi M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Education, Showa University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Comment on
    Pathol Int. 2023 Jan;73(1):27-36.

DOI: 10.1111/pin.13298
PMCID: PMC10107274
PMID: 36575944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Cureus. 2022 Nov 26;14(11):e31914. doi: 10.7759/cureus.31914. eCollection
2022  Nov.

Potential Limitations in the Clinical Adoption of 3-GEP Pigmented Lesion Assay 
for Melanoma Triage by Dermatologists and Advanced Practice Practitioners.

Ludzik J(1), Lee C(2), Witkowski A(1).

Author information:
(1)Dermatology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, USA.
(2)Dermatology, University of California Riverside School of Medicine, 
Riverside, USA.

Background A pigmented lesion assay (PLA) is used to non-invasively detect the 
presence of three genes associated with melanoma (LINC00518, PRAME, and TERT) 
using adhesive patch testing and has the potential to reduce unnecessary 
biopsies. However, few studies have evaluated the clinical applicability of PLA 
testing and its potential limitations in real-world practice. We aim to identify 
possible barriers that inhibit the clinical utility of PLA testing by 
dermatologists. Methods Retrospective case-control study analyzing the PLA 
testing by two pigmented-lesion specialists that underwent PLA testing as part 
of clinical management. Data was collected from April 2021 to April 2022 from an 
academic tertiary-level center. Results The total cohort consists of 472 
lesions. Genetic analysis failure for LINC00518 and PRAME occurred in 12.5% of 
cases and in 70.9% of cases for TERT. In 38.5% of cases, PLA results were 
discrepant with histopathology. The additional time associated with PLA use 
independent from the patient's visit was 15 min on average. Conclusion The high 
proportion of non-actionable results and discrepant cases highlights potential 
barriers to the widespread adoption of PLA testing. The high proportion of 
genetic analysis failure seen for TERT and limited influence on the proposed 
risk suggests TERT does not offer significant clinical value.

Copyright © 2022, Ludzik et al.

DOI: 10.7759/cureus.31914
PMCID: PMC9792410
PMID: 36579219

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


484. Head Neck Pathol. 2023 Jun;17(2):401-408. doi: 10.1007/s12105-022-01515-9.
Epub  2022 Dec 31.

PRAME Staining in Sinonasal Mucosal Melanoma: A Single-Center Experience.

Scheurleer WFJ(#)(1), Braunius WW(#)(2)(3), Tijink BM(2), Suijkerbuijk KPM(4), 
Dierselhuis MP(3), Meijers RWJ(5), Blokx WAM(5), de Bree R(2), Breimer GE(5), 
Rijken JA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgical Oncology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. W.F.J.Scheurleer-3@umcutrecht.nl.
(2)Department of Head and Neck Surgical Oncology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(3)Princess Máxima Center for Pediatric Oncology, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Pathology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Sinonasal mucosal melanoma (MM) is a rare, aggressive melanoma 
subtype. Complete surgical excision, with or without adjuvant radiotherapy, 
remains the cornerstone of treatment and yields adequate locoregional control. 
Metastatic MM is managed similarly to metastatic cutaneous melanoma but with 
poorer survival. PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) has been 
identified as a potential diagnostic marker and therapeutic target in the 
treatment of cutaneous melanoma.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of the clinical characteristics and 
immunohistochemical features of all sinonasal MM patients referred to the 
department of Head and Neck Surgical Oncology, UMC Utrecht Cancer Center, 
between 2011 and 2021 was performed. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array 
and next-generation sequencing (NGS) were performed in selected cases.
RESULTS: A total of 26 patients with an MM were included. The median follow-up 
duration was 15 months. At the end of follow-up, 13 patients had died due to 
progression of their disease, and one patient died of intercurrent disease. 
PRAME immunohistochemistry was performed in 23 out of 26 cases, all displaying 
PRAME expression. In two cases PRAME expression was present both within the 
melanoma cells and in melanocytes in adjacent mucosa. SNP array showed ≥ 5 copy 
number variants (CNV) in all tested cases, with a median of 29.5 CNVs (IQR 
23.25-40). The three most common mutations identified by NGS were NRAS (7 cases) 
and NF1 (2 cases).
CONCLUSION: We show that expression of PRAME is common in sinonasal MM, making 
PRAME a useful ancillary diagnostic tool and a potential therapeutic target in 
sinonasal MM. The demonstrated occurrence of extensive presence of 
PRAME-positive melanocytes in the surrounding mucosa of sinonasal MM might 
explain the multifocal nature of melanoma in the (sinonasal) mucosa, and would 
be an extra argument for a PRAME targeting treatment in preventing local disease 
recurrence.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12105-022-01515-9
PMCID: PMC10293483
PMID: 36586078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


485. Pathol Res Pract. 2023 Jan;241:154299. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2022.154299. Epub
2022  Dec 31.

The role of PRAME and NY-ESO-1 as potential therapeutic and prognostic 
biomarkers in triple-negative breast carcinomas.

See SHC(1), Smith SH(2), Finkelman BS(3), LaBoy C(2), Novo JE(2), Siziopikou 
KP(2), Blanco LZ Jr(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL, USA. Electronic address: sharlene.see@northwestern.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, University of Rochester School of Medicine, 
Rochester, NY, USA.

PRAME and NY-ESO-1 are cancer-testis antigens (CTAs) reported to be highly 
enriched in triple-negative breast cancers (TNBCs), against which vaccines and 
immunotherapies are currently being developed. This study aims to analyze PRAME 
and NY-ESO-1 expression in TNBCs and their correlation with clinical outcomes. 
This is a retrospective cohort study of TNBC patients who have undergone 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy. PRAME and NY-ESO-1 expression were assessed on 
pre-therapy biopsies as H-scores (percentage x intensity) with final H scores of 
2-3 considered as positive. Association between expression and pathologic 
complete response (pCR), metastasis, and residual cancer burden (RCB) were 
assessed via logistic regression. Cox proportional hazards models were used to 
assess the association with progression-free survival. P-values < 0.05 were 
considered statistically significant. Sixty-three percent of 76 patients were 
positive for PRAME. In contrast, only 5 % were positive for NY-ESO-1. PRAME 
positivity was significantly associated with a lower likelihood of early 
metastatic disease (OR = 0.24, 95 % CI 0.08-0.62; P = 0.005). However, it was 
not significantly associated with pCR, RCB category, or progression-free 
survival. NY-ESO1 score was not significantly associated with early metastatic 
disease, pCR, RCB category, or progression-free survival. Our results suggest 
that PRAME positivity may be associated with a lower risk of early metastasis in 
TNBCs, but not with response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy or progression-free 
survival. The high expression of PRAME in TNBCs makes it a potential therapeutic 
target, while NY-ESO1 appears to be a less useful marker. However, further 
larger studies are needed to ascertain the utility of these markers.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2022.154299
PMID: 36603407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no competing interests.


486. Molecules. 2023 Jan 3;28(1):425. doi: 10.3390/molecules28010425.

Branched Linkers for Site-Specific Fluorescent Labeling of Antibodies.

Sapozhnikova KA(1), Gulyak EL(1), Misyurin VA(2), Simonova MA(1), Ryabukhina 
EV(1), Alexeeva AV(3), Tikhonova NA(3), Lyzhko NA(3), Popova GP(1), Misyurin 
AV(3), Ustinov AV(1)(4), Korshun VA(1), Alferova VA(1), Ryazantsev DY(1), Brylev 
VA(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Miklukho-Maklaya 
16/10, 117997 Moscow, Russia.
(2)N.N. Blokhin National Medical Cancer Research Center, Ministry of Health of 
Russia, Kashirskoye sh. 24, 115478 Moscow, Russia.
(3)GeneTechnology LLC, Profsoyuznaya 104, 117485 Moscow, Russia.
(4)Lumiprobe RUS Ltd., Kotsyubinskogo 4, 121351 Moscow, Russia.

Fluorescent antibodies have proved to be an invaluable tool for molecular 
biology and diagnostics. They are routinely produced by modification of lysine 
residues, which leads to high heterogeneity. As such, their affinity may be 
compromised if the antigen-binding site is affected, the probability of which 
increases along with the degree of labeling. In this work, we propose a 
methodology for the synthesis of site-specific antibody-dye conjugates with a 
high degree of labeling. To this end, we synthesized two oxyamine-based branched 
triazide linkers and coupled them with a periodate-oxidized anti-PRAME antibody 
6H8; two oxyamine-based linear monoazide linkers of similar structure were used 
as controls. The azide-labeled antibodies were subsequently conjugated with 
fluorescent dyes via SPAAC, a copper-free click reaction. Compared to their 
counterparts made with linear linkers, the branched conjugates possessed a 
higher degree of labeling. The utility of the methodology was demonstrated in 
the detection of the PRAME protein on the surface of the cell by flow cytometry.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules28010425
PMCID: PMC9822498
PMID: 36615611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


487. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Dec;50(12):1065-1069. doi: 10.1111/cup.14390. Epub 2023
Feb  3.

Compound clear cell sarcoma with EWSR1::CREM fusion.

Li P(1), Busam K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, New York, USA.

Cutaneous clear cell sarcomas may be confused with melanomas as a result of 
overlapping histopathology and immunohistochemical staining. We report a case of 
a 41-year-old woman with a purported history of acral melanoma of the great toe. 
Twenty-one months after excision of the primary tumor, the patient developed a 
groin mass, diagnosed as metastatic melanoma on excision. Five months later, a 
biopsy of a lung mass was reported as metastatic melanoma. The patient was 
referred to our institution for treatment, which prompted molecular testing on 
the groin metastasis by targeted next-generation sequencing. Molecular testing 
results revealed TP53 and TERT promoter mutations and the absence of BRAF, KRAS, 
and KIT mutations; it also revealed an EWSR1::CREM fusion that was confirmed by 
Archer FusionPlex. The alleged acral melanoma was re-reviewed, showing an 
invasive amelanotic spindle cell neoplasm in the dermis with neoplastic nests at 
the dermal-epidermal junction; the tumor cells expressed markers of melanocytic 
differentiation but were negative for PRAME and BRAF immunohistochemical 
staining. Molecular testing of the toe and lung metastasis revealed the same 
EWSR1::CREM fusion. In light of the molecular findings, the diagnosis was 
revised to a primary acral compound clear cell sarcoma with EWSR1::CREM fusion.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14390
PMID: 36640048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. J Dent Sci. 2023 Jan;18(1):57-64. doi: 10.1016/j.jds.2022.07.010. Epub 2022
Aug  5.

Methylation related genes are associated with prognosis of patients with head 
and neck squamous cell carcinoma via altering tumor immune microenvironment.

Tian X(1)(2), Shi C(1)(2), Liu S(1)(2), Zhao C(1)(3), Wang X(1)(2), Cao Y(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oral Diseases, National Clinical Research Center for 
Oral Diseases, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(2)Department of Head and Neck Oncology, West China College of Stomatology, 
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.
(3)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, West China College of 
Stomatology, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Analysis of methylomes may enable prognostic stratification 
in patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC). This study aimed 
to identify methylation-related differentially expressed genes (mrDEGs), and to 
assess their efficacy in predicting patients' survival, tumor immune 
microenvironment alterations and immune checkpoints in patients with HNSCC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The methylome and transcriptome data of 528 HNSCC and 50 
normal samples from TCGA database were used as training cohort. We identified 
mrDEGs and constituted a risk score model using Kaplan-Meier analysis and 
multivariate Cox regression. The prognostic efficacy of the risk score was 
validated in GSE65858 and GSE41613. We determined the enrichment of previously 
defined biological processes of mrDEGs. We separated the HNSCC patients into 
low-risk and high-risk groups and compared their immune cell infiltration and 
immune checkpoints' expressions.
RESULTS: The risk score model was constituted by nine prognostic mrDEGs, 
including LIMD2, SYCP2, EPHX3, UCLH1, STC2, PRAME, SLC7A4, PLOD2, and ACADL. The 
risk score was a significant prognostic factor both in training (P < 0.001) and 
validation dataset (GSE65858: P = 0.008; GSE41613 = 0.015). The prognostic 
mrDEGs were enriched in multiple immune-associated pathways. Effector immune 
cells were increased in low-risk patients, including CD8+ T cells, activated 
CD4+ T cells, and plasma cells, whereas tumor associated M2 macrophages were 
recruited in the high-risk group. Expressions of immune checkpoints were 
generally higher in low-risk patients, including CTLA-4, PD-1 and LAG3.
CONCLUSION: The mrDEGs can stratify HNSCC patients' prognosis, which correlates 
with alterations in tumor immune infiltrations and immune checkpoints.

© 2022 Association for Dental Sciences of the Republic of China. Publishing 
services by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jds.2022.07.010
PMCID: PMC9831828
PMID: 36643267


489. Actas Dermosifiliogr. 2023 May;114(5):402-412. doi:
10.1016/j.ad.2023.01.001.  Epub 2023 Jan 14.

Modern Concepts in Melanocytic Tumors.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Fernandez-Flores A(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Anatomía Patológica, Hospital Universitario El Bierzo, 
Ponferrada, León, España; Servicio de Anatomía Patológica, Hospital de la Reina, 
Ponferrada, León, España; Departamento de Investigación, Instituto de 
Investigaciones Biomédicas A Coruña (INIBIC), Universidad de A Coruña (UDC), A 
Coruña, España. Electronic address: dermatopathonline@gmail.com.

The advent of molecular pathology has fueled unprecedented advances in the 
diagnosis and understanding of melanocytic tumors. These advances, however, have 
also generated concepts that may be difficult to grasp for clinical 
practitioners, who are not always conversant with the array of genetic 
techniques employed in the laboratory. These same practitioners, however, are 
being increasingly called on to provide treatments that are often based on the 
latest molecular findings for melanocytic tumors. We review the most recent 
concepts in the pathway classification of melanocytic tumors, including 
intermediate lesions known as melanocytomas. We examine the genetic and 
molecular techniques used to study these tumors, look at where they overlap, and 
discuss their limitations and some of the most difficult-to-interpret results.

Copyright © 2023 AEDV. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ad.2023.01.001
PMID: 36649787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Am J Dermatopathol. 2023 Feb 1;45(2):107-112. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002354.  Epub 2022 Dec 7.

Staged Excision of Lentigo Maligna of the Head and Neck: Assessing Surgical 
Excision Margins With Melan A, SOX10, and PRAME Immunohistochemistry.

de Wet J(1)(2), Plessis PJD(1)(2), Schneider JW(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Dermatology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and 
Health Sciences, Stellenbosch University and Tygerberg Academic Hospital, Cape 
Town, South Africa.
(2)Skinmatters Mohs and Reconstructive Unit, Club Surgical Centre, Hazelwood 
Pretoria and Summerhill Surgical Centre, Somerset West; and.
(3)Division of Anatomical Pathology, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
Stellenbosch University and National Health Laboratory Service, Tygerberg 
Academic Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: Staged excision has emerged as a superior treatment option for 
lentigo maligna (LM) of the head and neck when compared with conventional wide 
local excision. Assessing surgical excision margins for remaining LM poses a 
diagnostic challenge.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether immunohistochemical (IHC) staining with SOX10 
and preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) aids in diagnosing LM 
on excision margins compared with conventional hematoxylin and eosin and Melan A 
IHC staining.
METHODS: This study included cases of LM of the head and neck treated with 
staged excision. Histological findings were reviewed according to standard 
criteria for the diagnosis of LM and compared with the results after IHC 
staining for Melan A, SOX10, and PRAME.
RESULTS: The cohort consisted of 35 sections. Based on hematoxylin and eosin and 
Melan A IHC staining, 23 sections were diagnosed as LM by the initial 
pathologist. Further staining with SOX10 IHC showed only 8 to be consistent with 
a diagnosis of LM and 9 revealing features of actinic melanocyte hyperplasia. 
PRAME was positive in 5 of the 8 cases of LM and negative in all 9 cases of 
actinic melanocyte hyperplasia (P = 0.009). The presence of melanocyte nests (P 
= 0.29) and pagetoid spread (P = 0.003) was the most reliable histological 
findings distinguishing LM from its mimics.
CONCLUSION: SOX10 is a more specific and sensitive marker for melanocytes when 
assessing for LM on excision margins compared with Melan A. The addition of 
PRAME can be useful to confirm or exclude the diagnosis in challenging cases.

Copyright © 2022 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002354
PMID: 36669074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


491. Blood Cell Ther. 2021 Oct 14;4(Spec Edition):S20-S27. doi: 
10.31547/bct-2021-014. eCollection 2021 Oct 14.

Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation and Cellular Therapy.

Kim HJ(1), Weisdorf D(2), Gottlieb DJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Catholic Hematology Hospital, Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, 
The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, the Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Hematology, Oncology and Transplantation, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, U.S.A.
(3)Westmead Hospital University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

Patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) 
generally require allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) for a 
cure, except for patients with favorable genetic genotypes such as those with 
core-binding factor AML. However, the use of intensive chemotherapy followed by 
prompt HCT does not fully prevent relapse or refractory disease. Despite 
improvements in transplant techniques and management of complications, further 
improvement of HCT outcomes is urgently needed. Moreover, careful patient 
counseling, donor selection, and choice of transplant type are essential to 
maximize the benefits of early allografting. Maintenance after HCT focusing on 
selective immunomodulation combined with targeted immunotherapies that control 
persisting or relapsed hematologic malignancies is currently under active 
investigation. To improve the balance between GVHD, relapse, and infection, the 
use of purified blood stem cell grafts in conjunction with ex vivo expanded 
T-cells from stem cell donors targeting common infectious and leukemic antigens 
has been explored. T cells against infectious agents might also be generated 
using partially HLA-matched third-party T cells from cryopreserved cell banks, 
and a series of studies confirmed the clinical value of donor-derived CMV- and 
EBV-specific T cells. This approach has also been applied to acute leukemia, and 
trials using donor-derived cytotoxic T-cells targeting multiple leukemic 
antigens such as WT1, PRAME, survivin, and NY-ESO, as well as donor-derived 
CAR19 T-cells after allo-HCT, are currently underway.

Copyright Ⓒ2021 Asia-Pacific Blood and Marrow Transplantation Group (APBMT).

DOI: 10.31547/bct-2021-014
PMCID: PMC9847286
PMID: 36713469

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest 
associated with this article. Disclosure forms provided by the authors are 
available on the website. Hee-Je Kim is one of the Editors of Blood Cell 
Therapy. He was not involved in the editorial evaluation or decision to accept 
this article for publication.


492. Front Oncol. 2023 Jan 25;13:1123464. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1123464.
eCollection  2023.

Emerging targeted and cellular therapies in the treatment of advanced and 
metastatic synovial sarcoma.

Fuchs JR(1), Schulte BC(2), Fuchs JW(1), Agulnik M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McGaw Medical Center of Northwestern University, 
Chicago, IL, United States.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, United States.
(3)Medical Oncology and Therapeutics Research, City of Hope Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, Duarte, CA, United States.

Synovial sarcoma is a soft tissue sarcoma accounting for approximately 1,000 
cases per year in the United States. Currently, standard treatment of advanced 
and metastatic synovial sarcoma is anthracycline-based chemotherapy. While 
advanced synovial sarcoma is more responsive to chemotherapy compared to other 
soft tissue sarcomas, survival rates are poor, with a median survival time of 
less than 18 months. Enhanced understanding of tumor antigen expression and 
molecular mechanisms behind synovial sarcoma provide potential targets for 
treatment. Adoptive Cell Transfer using engineered T-cell receptors is in 
clinical trials for treatment of synovial sarcoma, specifically targeting New 
York esophageal squamous cell carcinoma-1 (NY-ESO-1), preferentially expressed 
antigen in melanoma (PRAME), and melanoma antigen-A4 (MAGE-A4). In this review, 
we explore the opportunities and challenges of these treatments. We also 
describe artificial adjuvant vector cells (aAVCs) and BRD9 inhibitors, two 
additional potential targets for treatment of advanced synovial sarcoma. This 
review demonstrates the progress that has been made in treatment of synovial 
sarcoma and highlights the future study and qualification needed to implement 
these technologies as standard of care.

Copyright © 2023 Fuchs, Schulte, Fuchs and Agulnik.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2023.1123464
PMCID: PMC9905840
PMID: 36761952

Conflict of interest statement: MA serves on the advisory board for Aadi 
Biosciences, Bayer, Deciphera and Regeneron. BS serves on the advisory board for 
Aadi Biosciences and provides consulting services for Caris Life Sciences. The 
remaining authors declare that the research was conducted in the absence of any 
commercial or financial relationships that could be constructed as a potential 
conflict of interest.


493. Mod Pathol. 2023 Apr;36(4):100081. doi: 10.1016/j.modpat.2022.100081. Epub
2023  Jan 10.

Prognostic Value of BAP1 and Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma 
(PRAME) Immunohistochemistry in Uveal Melanomas.

Han LM(1), Lee KW(2), Uludag G(1), Seider MI(3), Afshar AR(4), Bloomer MM(5), 
Pekmezci M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, Kaiser Permanente San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California.
(4)Ocular Oncology Service, Department of Ophthalmology, Wayne & Gladys Valley 
Center for Vision, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California.
(5)Department of Pathology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California; Department of Ophthalmology, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(6)Department of Pathology, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California; Department of Ophthalmology, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California; San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, San Francisco, California. Electronic address: melike.pekmezci@ucsf.edu.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common primary intraocular tumor in adults, and 
despite excellent local control, more than 50% of patients develop and die from 
metastatic disease. Loss of BAP1 nuclear staining, a surrogate marker of BAP1 
mutation, and preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) messenger RNA 
overexpression, as assessed using qPCR, have previously been shown to correlate 
with increased metastasis rate in UM. In this study, we demonstrated that UM 
could be successfully risk-stratified using a combination of BAP1 and PRAME 
immunohistochemical (IHC) stains. We retrospectively reviewed 318 UM cases with 
sufficient tissue and performed BAP1 and PRAME IHC to stratify them as 
BAP1+/PRAME- (group 1, n = 135), BAP1+/PRAME+ (group 2, n = 43), BAP1-/PRAME- 
(group 3, n = 94), and BAP1-/PRAME+ (group 4, n = 46). Increasing the study risk 
group on the basis of loss of BAP1 expression and positive PRAME staining was 
associated with a higher rate of metastasis and disease-specific death and lower 
metastasis-free survival (MFS) and disease-specific survival (DSS). Among tumors 
with loss of BAP1 staining, PRAME positivity was associated with shorter MFS 
(P = .018) and showed a trend toward shorter DSS (P = .061). Among tumors with 
retained BAP1 staining, PRAME positivity was associated with shorter MFS and DSS 
(P = .001 and P = .021, respectively). In summary, a combination of BAP1 and 
PRAME IHC can be used for risk stratification of UMs.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.modpat.2022.100081
PMID: 36788079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 May;50(5):450-454. doi: 10.1111/cup.14407. Epub 2023
Mar 2.

PRAME immunohistochemistry can distinguish melanocytic pseudonests of lichenoid 
reactions from melanoma in situ.

Roy SF(1), Panse G(1)(2), McNiff JM(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.

BACKGROUND: Distinguishing melanocytic pseudonests encountered in lichenoid 
dermatoses or lichenoid keratoses from melanoma in situ (MIS) with brisk 
lichenoid inflammation can prove challenging.
METHODS: We designed a case-control study to evaluate the accuracy metrics of 
PRAME immunohistochemistry to distinguish melanocytic pseudonests in lichenoid 
dermatoses or keratoses from inflamed MIS. Immunostaining for PRAME was 
performed on paraffin-embedded formalin-fixed diagnostic tissue using a rabbit 
monoclonal antibody to PRAME (Abcam), with a 1:3200 dilution on a Leica Bond 
detection system.
RESULTS: Our search identified 21 cases of melanocytic pseudonests (n = 21, 46%) 
encountered in lichenoid dermatoses and 24 cases of inflamed MIS (n = 24, 53%). 
Each method of evaluating PRAME immunohistochemistry (PRAME+ clusters, PRAME % 
of melanocytes by four categories and PRAME+ melanocyte counts per linear mm of 
epidermal basal layer) showed statistically significant differences between the 
MIS and the pseudonest cohorts (respectively, p < 0.001; p < 0.001; and 
p < 0.001). Receiver operating characteristics analysis for PRAME+ melanocyte 
counts per linear mm of epidermal basal layer revealed an area under the curve 
of 0.9 ± 0.05 (95% confidence interval 0.9-1.0). When determining an optimal 
cut-off point for the best Youden index [sensitivity (%) + specificity 
(%) - 100], the cut-off of 1.0 PRAME+ melanocytes per linear mm showed a 
sensitivity of 79.2% and specificity of 85.7% (Youden index 0.65) to distinguish 
MIS from pseudonests.
CONCLUSION: PRAME immunohistochemistry may constitute an additional tool for 
this challenging differential diagnosis.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14407
PMID: 36789669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Hum Pathol. 2023 Apr;134:1-18. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2023.02.002. Epub 2023
Feb  16.

PRAME expression by immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription quantitative 
PCR in conjunctival melanocytic lesions-a comprehensive clinicopathologic study 
of 202 cases and correlation of cytogenetics with PRAME expression in 
challenging conjunctival melanocytic lesions.

Mudhar HS(1), Milman T(2), Stevenson S(3), Watson M(4), Kim J(5), Magan T(6), 
Salvi SM(7), Harley U(8), Lally SE(9), Shields CL(10).

Author information:
(1)National Specialist Ophthalmic Pathology Service (NSOPS), Dept of 
Histopathology, E-Floor, Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield S10 2JF, England, 
UK. Electronic address: hardeep.mudhar@nhs.net.
(2)Department of Pathology, Wills Eye Hospital, Sidney Kimmel Medical College of 
Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. Electronic address: 
tatyana.milman@gmail.com.
(3)Sheffield Diagnostic Genetics Service, Sheffield Children's Hospital, 
Sheffield S10 2TH, England, UK; The University of Manchester, Manchester M13 
9PL, England, UK. Electronic address: sarah.stevenson11@nhs.net.
(4)Sheffield Diagnostic Genetics Service, Sheffield Children's Hospital, 
Sheffield S10 2TH, England, UK. Electronic address: mark.watson6@nhs.net.
(5)Department of Pathology, Wills Eye Hospital, Sidney Kimmel Medical College of 
Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. Electronic address: 
Julie.Kim@jefferson.edu.
(6)Department of Pathology, Wills Eye Hospital, Sidney Kimmel Medical College of 
Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. Electronic address: 
tejal.magan@nhs.net.
(7)Sheffield Ocular Oncology Service, Dept of Ophthalmology, A Floor, Royal 
Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield S10 2JF, UK. Electronic address: 
sachin.salvi@nhs.net.
(8)Sheffield Ocular Oncology Service, Dept of Ophthalmology, A Floor, Royal 
Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield S10 2JF, UK. Electronic address: 
umiya.harley@nhs.net.
(9)Ocular Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Sidney Kimmel Medical College of 
Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. Electronic address: 
saralally1@yahoo.com.
(10)Ocular Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Sidney Kimmel Medical College 
of Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. Electronic address: 
carolshields@gmail.com.

This study examined PRAME (preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma) 
expression by immunohistochemistry and reverse transcription quantitative PCR 
(RT-qPCR) in 202 histologically unequivocal conjunctival melanocytic lesions: 76 
nevi, 29 benign melanoses, 25 low-grade conjunctival intraepithelial melanocytic 
lesions (LGCMIL), 26 high-grade conjunctival melanocytic intraepithelial 
lesions/in-situ melanoma (HGCMIL), and 46 invasive melanomas. PRAME score 0 was 
seen in 96% of nevi (73/76), 96% of benign melanoses (28/29), and 88% of LGCMIL 
(22/25). PRAME score 4 was seen in 50% HGCMIL (13/26) and 76% invasive melanomas 
(35/46). PRAME score 4 had a sensitivity of 50% and specificity of 100% in 
differentiating between HGCMIL and benign melanosis/LGCMIL. PRAME score 4 had a 
sensitivity of 76% and specificity of 100% in differentiating between melanoma 
and nevi. Relative quantification of PRAME mRNA expression by RT-qPCR was 
performed on 49 cases (24%): 17 nevi, 3 benign melanoses, 5 LGCMIL, 9 HGCMIL, 
and 15 invasive melanomas. The analysis generated two distinct groupings with 
'high' relative PRAME expression for the HGCMIL and invasive melanoma and 
'low/zero' expression for nevi, benign melanosis, and LGCMIL. Thirty-three 
challenging conjunctival melanocytic lesions that had previous fluorescence in 
situ hybridization (FISH) analysis were studied: 18 nevi, 12 melanomas in a 
nevus, 2 nevoid melanomas, and 1 in-situ melanoma. All nevi (100%) showed 
concordance between negative FISH and PRAME (scores 0-3). Four of 13 melanomas 
(31%; in-situ, invasive, isolated, and in association with nevus) showed 
concordance between positive FISH and PRAME score 4. In conclusion, PRAME score 
4 has 100% specificity for the diagnosis of HGCMIL and melanoma. PRAME is 
limited in its sensitivity in the evaluation of challenging melanocytic lesions.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2023.02.002
PMID: 36804828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Mol Ther Methods Clin Dev. 2023 Jan 20;28:249-261. doi: 
10.1016/j.omtm.2023.01.005. eCollection 2023 Mar 9.

Human iPSC-derived preclinical models to identify toxicity of tumor-specific T 
cells with clinical potential.

van Amerongen RA(1), Morton LT(1), Chaudhari UG(2), Remst DFG(1), Hagedoorn 
RS(1), van den Berg CW(3), Freund C(2), Falkenburg JHF(1), Heemskerk MHM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, 2333ZA Leiden, 
the Netherlands.
(2)LUMC hiPSC Hotel, Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Leiden University 
Medical Center, 2333ZA Leiden, the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine-Nephrology and Einthoven Laboratory of 
Vascular and Regenerative Medicine, Leiden University Medical Center, 2333ZA 
Leiden, the Netherlands.

The balance between safety and efficacy of T cell therapies remains challenging 
and T cell mediated toxicities have occurred. The stringent selection of 
tumor-specific targets and careful selection of tumor-specific T cells using 
T cell toxicity screenings are essential. In vitro screening options against 
vital organs or specialized cell subsets would be preferably included in 
preclinical pipelines, but options remain limited. Here, we set up 
preclinical models with human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived 
cardiomyocytes, epicardial cells, and kidney organoids to investigate toxicity 
risks of tumor-specific T cells more thoroughly. CD8+T cells reactive against 
PRAME, HA-1H, CD20, or WT1, currently used or planned to be used in phase I/II 
clinical studies, were included. Using these hiPSC-derived preclinical models, 
we demonstrated that WT1-specific T cells caused on-target toxicity that 
correlated with target gene expression. Multiple measures of T cell reactivity 
demonstrated this toxicity on the level of T cells and hiPSC-derived target 
cells. In addition, phenotypic analysis illustrated interaction and crosstalk 
between infiltrated T cells and kidney organoids. In summary, we demonstrated 
the benefit of hiPSC-derived models in determining toxicity risks of 
tumor-specific T cells. Furthermore, our data emphasizes the additional value of 
other measures of T cell reactivity on top of the commonly used cytokine levels.

© 2023 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1016/j.omtm.2023.01.005
PMCID: PMC9931760
PMID: 36816758

Conflict of interest statement: Miltenyi Biotec has licensed the PRAME and HA1 
TCR.


497. J Clin Pathol. 2023 Mar 7:jcp-2022-208697. doi: 10.1136/jcp-2022-208697.
Online  ahead of print.

Analysis of PRAME immunocytochemistry in 109 acral malignant melanoma in situ.

Miao QJ(1), Zang J(1), Shao XB(1), Sun JF(1), Chen YP(2), Chen H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union 
Medical College Institute of Dermatology, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Fujian Medical University cancer Hospital, Fuzhou, 
Fujian, China ch76ch@163.com kelf2006@126.com.
(3)Department of Pathology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union 
Medical College Institute of Dermatology, Nanjing, Jiangsu, China ch76ch@163.com 
kelf2006@126.com.

AIMS: Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) recently is a 
reliable immunohistochemistry (IHC) marker for distinguishing melanoma from 
other lesions. However, there are few articles focused on PRAME use in acral 
malignant melanoma, the most common type in Asians. This study investigated 
PRAME IHC expression in a large series of acral malignant melanoma in situ to 
add to the body of clinical knowledge.
METHODS: PRAME IHC was performed in unequivocal cases of primary acral 
lentiginous melanoma in situ (ALMIS), subungual melanoma in situ (SMIS) and 
acral recurrent nevi as the control. PRAME tumour cell percentage positivity and 
intensity were expressed as categorised in a cumulative score by adding the 
quartile of positive tumour cells to intensity labelling. The final IHC 
expression was interpreted as negative (0-1), weak (2-3), moderate (4-5) or 
strong (6-7).
RESULTS: In 91 ALMIS patients, 32 cases (35.16%) were strong, 37 (40.66%) were 
moderate and 22 (24.18%) were weak. In 18 SMIS patients, strong positivity of 
PRAME was observed in 4 (22.22%) cases, moderate in 10 (55.56%) and weak in the 
remaining 4 (22.22%). No melanoma sample was negative for PRAME. By comparison, 
only 2 of the 40 acral recurrent nevi cases were positive.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study supports the ancillary value of PRAME for diagnosing 
ALMIS and SMIS with high sensitivity and specificity.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/jcp-2022-208697
PMID: 36882315

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


498. Open Med (Wars). 2023 Mar 9;18(1):20230665. doi: 10.1515/med-2023-0665. 
eCollection 2023.

HDAC5-mediated PRAME regulates the proliferation, migration, invasion, and EMT 
of laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma via the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway.

Yu L(1), Cao H(1), Yang JW(1), Meng WX(1), Yang C(1), Wang JT(1), Yu MM(1), Wang 
BS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, The Second Hospital of Hebei Medical 
University, Shijiazhuang, Hebei, China.

Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma (LSCC) is an aggressive and lethal malignant 
neoplasm with extremely poor prognoses. Accumulating evidence has indicated that 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is correlated with several 
kinds of cancers. However, there is little direct evidence to substantiate the 
biological function of PRAME in LSCC. The purpose of the current study is to 
explore the oncogenic role of PRAME in LSCC. PRAME expression was analyzed in 57 
pairs of LSCC tumor tissue samples through quantitative real-time PCR, and the 
correlation between PRAME and clinicopathological features was analyzed. The 
result indicated that PRAME was overexpressed in the LSCC patients and 
correlated with the TNM staging and lymphatic metastasis. The biological 
functions and molecular mechanism of PRAME in LSCC progression were investigated 
through in vitro and in vivo assays. Functional studies confirmed that PRAME 
facilitated the proliferation, invasion, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal 
transition of LSCC cells, and PRAME also promoted tumor growth in vivo. HDAC5 
was identified as an upstream regulator that can affect the expression of PRAME. 
Moreover, PRAME played the role at least partially by activating PI3K/AKT/mTOR 
pathways. The above findings elucidate that PRAME may be a valuable oncogene 
target, contributing to the diagnosis and therapy of LSCC.

© 2023 the author(s), published by De Gruyter.

DOI: 10.1515/med-2023-0665
PMCID: PMC9999116
PMID: 36910848

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interest.


499. Am J Surg Pathol. 2023 May 1;47(5):599-610. doi:
10.1097/PAS.0000000000002032.  Epub 2023 Mar 13.

PRAME Expression in Mucosal Melanoma of the Head and Neck Region.

Ricci C(1)(2), Altavilla MV(3)(1), Corti B(1), Pasquini E(4), Presutti L(5), 
Baietti AM(6), Amorosa L(7), Balbi T(1), Baldovini C(1), Ambrosi F(1)(2), 
Grillini M(1), D'Errico A(2)(1), Fiorentino M(1)(2), Foschini MP(8).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Unit.
(2)Department of Experimental, Diagnostic, and Specialty Medicine (DIMES), 
University of Bologna.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, School of Anatomic 
Pathology, University of Bologna.
(4)ENT Unit, Surgical Department.
(5)Otolaryngology Unit, Department of Head and Neck Surgery, IRCCS AOUBO.
(6)Maxillo-Facial Operative Unit, Bellaria and Maggiore Hospital-AUSL Bologna.
(7)ENT Unit, Surgical Department, Maggiore Hospital-AUSL Bologna.
(8)Pathology Unit, Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences (DIBINEM), 
Bellaria Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma), a cancer-testis antigen 
expressed in normal and neoplastic tissues with several functions, proved to be 
a useful diagnostic tool in the differential diagnosis between benign and 
malignant melanocytic lesions. The current study aims to perform PRAME stain on 
a retrospective case series of mucosal melanocytic tumors of the head and neck 
region to compare 3 different scores and evaluate the most reliable one in this 
diagnostic set. Immunohistochemical analysis for PRAME was performed in 54 
benign and malignant mucosal melanocytic tumors of the head and neck region 
collected from 41 patients. The best-performing cutoff of PRAME-positive cells 
(nuclear stain) to differentiate benign and malignant mucosal melanocytic tumors 
of the head and neck region is that proposed by Raghavan and colleagues 
(<60%/≥60% of PRAME-positive cells), with 100% and 77.8% of benign lesions and 
malignant tumors respectively correctly identified. Applying this score, PRAME 
stain showed the best results (sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, and positive 
and negative predictive values) for the diagnosis of head and neck melanocytic 
tumors. However, a subset of PRAME-negative malignant tumors was identified, 
especially located in the palatal area (hard and soft palate). Finally, high 
PRAME expression (≥60%) was associated with specific sites (nasal cavity/nasal 
septum/turbinates nasopharynx, and the maxillary sinus), nodular histotype, and 
female sex.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000002032
PMCID: PMC10101133
PMID: 36912431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest and Source of Funding: The 
authors have disclosed that they have no significant relationships with, or 
financial interest in, any commercial companies pertaining to this article.


500. Mol Biol Rep. 2023 May;50(5):4301-4307. doi: 10.1007/s11033-023-08290-y.
Epub  2023 Mar 15.

Quantitative expression evaluation of PRAME gene in osteosarcoma.

Kuruwitage Ishikawa AS(1), Tesser-Gamba F(1)(2), Petrilli AS(1)(3), de 
Seixas-Alves MT(1)(4), Garcia-Filho RJ(1)(5), de Toledo SRC(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Oncology Institute (IOP/GRAACC), Federal University of Sao Paulo, 
Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Morphology and Genetics, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao 
Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, 
Brazil.
(4)Department of Pathology, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, 
Brazil.
(5)Department of Orthopedic Surgery and Traumatology, Federal University of Sao 
Paulo, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(6)Pediatric Oncology Institute (IOP/GRAACC), Federal University of Sao Paulo, 
Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil. silviatoledo@graacc.org.br.
(7)Department of Morphology and Genetics, Federal University of Sao Paulo, Sao 
Paulo, SP, Brazil. silviatoledo@graacc.org.br.

BACKGROUND: In a previous study, our group observed that 68% of the osteosarcoma 
(OS) samples presented PRAME (Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma) gene 
expression. In this work, we propose to investigate quantitatively gene 
expression of PRAME in distinct patients groups.
METHODS AND RESULTS: 61 osteosarcoma samples, from 3 distinct patients groups 
were selected for this study: (1) Patients younger than 10 years old at 
diagnosis, (2) Patients that had poor evolution of disease and (3) Patients that 
were in remission of disease and had treatment with no intercurrences) PRAME 
gene expression levels were obtained using quantitative Real-Time Polymerase 
Chain Reaction method (qRT-PCR). Clinical parameters were collected from 
patient's medical charts. Results demonstrated an increase in PRAME gene 
expression in all samples, with high variation in expression levels, when 
considering all samples and when analyzed in each group. In addition, no 
statistical difference was found when considering clinical data collected or 
patients groups.
CONCLUSION: PRAME gene expression quantitative investigation did not bring any 
complementary information beyond of what had already been observed in other 
qualitative investigations published by our group, there is no relation between 
PRAME gene expression levels and disease evolution. However, the findings in 
this work contribute for validation PRAME gene expression as a good biomarker to 
OS, which, in the future, may allow identification circulating tumor cell or 
molecules to contribute with early diagnostic of metastasis, a genuine problem 
in OS that determinate flattening in survival curves.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-023-08290-y
PMID: 36922454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Ocul Oncol Pathol. 2022 Nov;8(3):156-160. doi: 10.1159/000524918. Epub 2022
May  9.

Comparison of Tumor Size and Gene Expression at Presentation in Uveal Melanoma 
Patients before and during the COVID-19 Pandemic.

Hasegawa N(1), Rusakevich A(2), Bernicker E(3), Teh BS(4), Schefler A(2).

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Ophthalmology, University of Texas at Houston, Houston, Texas, 
USA.
(2)bRetina Consultants of Texas, Houston, Texas, USA.
(3)cHouston Methodist Cancer Center, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, Texas, 
USA.
(4)dDepartment of Radiation Oncology, Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, 
Texas, USA.

Introduction: The aim of this study was to compare the clinical and gene 
expression variables of uveal melanoma patients presenting before and after the 
start of the COVID-19 pandemic as surrogate markers in order to assess the 
pandemic's potential impact on care. Methods: We conducted a retrospective chart 
review of uveal melanoma patients at Retina Consultants of Texas and assessed 
tumor size, staging, and gene expression data during two time periods: May 2019 
to February 2020 (Group 1: Before the COVID-19 pandemic declaration by the WHO 
in March 2020) and May 2020 to March 2021 (Group 2: After the start of the 
COVID-19 pandemic). Results: A total of 80 patients with uveal melanoma were 
studied (Group 1: 40 [50%] and Group 2: 40 [50%]). There was no statistically 
significant difference in the tumor thickness (p = 0.768), largest base 
dimension (p = 0.758), Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study size class (p = 
0.762), and American Joint Committee on Cancer stages (p = 0.872) between the 
two groups. Additionally, there was no difference in the tumors' gene expression 
data including gene expression profile class (p = 0.587) and PRAME expressivity 
(p = 0.861) between the two groups. Discussion/Conclusion: The COVID-19 pandemic 
had no effect on the presentation of uveal melanoma patients across all tumor 
characteristics including size, staging, and gene expression data, suggesting 
there was not a significant diagnostic delay in care for uveal melanoma patients 
at our center due to the pandemic.

© 2022 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000524918
PMCID: PMC9372456
PMID: 36923229


502. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2023;41(24):15354-15385. doi: 
10.1080/07391102.2023.2188956. Epub 2023 Mar 16.

Investigating the inhibitory and penetrating properties of three novel 
anticancer and antimicrobial scorpion peptides via molecular docking and 
molecular dynamic simulation.

Jahangirian E(1), Zargan J(1), Rabbani H(2), Zamani J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Basic Science, Imam Hossein University, 
Tehran, Iran.
(2)Monoclonal Antibody Research Center, Avicenna Research Institute, ACECR, 
Tehran, Iran.
(3)Department of Animal Biotechnology, National Institute of Genetic Engineering 
and Biotechnology, Tehran, Iran.

The two types of bladder cancer, muscle invasive and non-muscle invasive 
(NMIBC), are among the most prevalent cancers worldwide. Despite this, even 
though muscle-invasive bladder cancer is more deadly, NMIBC requires more 
therapy due to a greater recurrence rate and more extended and expensive care. 
Immunotherapy, intravesical chemotherapy, cystoscopy, and transurethral 
resection (TUR) are among the treatments available. Crude scorpion venomand 
purified proteins and peptides, can suppress cancer metastasis in an in vitro or 
in vivo context, suppress cancer growth, halt the cell cycle, and cause cell 
apoptosis, according to an increasing number of experimental and preclinical 
studies. In this research, three novels discovered peptides (P2, P3 and P4. 
ProteomeXchange: PXD036231) from Buthotus saulcyi and, Odontobuthus doriae 
scorpions were used along with a peptide called pantinin (as a control). The 
phylogenetic tree showed that the peptides belong to Chaperonin HSP60, 
Chrysophsin2 and Pheromone-binding protein2, respectively. These peptides were 
docked with four known antigens, BAGE, BLCAP, PRAME and ROR1 related to bladder 
cancer and three bacterial antigens FliC, FliD and FimH to investigate their 
antimicrobial and anticancer properties. The results showed that peptides 2 and 
3 have the best binding rate. The MD simulation results also confirmed the 
binding of peptides 2 and 3 to antigens. The penetration power of peptides 2 and 
3 in the membrane of cancer cells and bacterial cells was also simulated, and 
the results of RMSD and PD confirmed it. QSAR suggests that peptides 2 and 3 can 
act as anti-cancer and anti-microbial peptides.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. 
Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2023.2188956
PMID: 36927377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Head Neck Pathol. 2023 Mar;17(1):143-153. doi: 10.1007/s12105-023-01536-y.
Epub  2023 Mar 16.

Top 10 Differential Diagnoses for Desmoplastic Melanoma.

Fernandez-Flores A(1)(2)(3), Singh R(4), Cassarino DS(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Histopathology, University Hospital El Bierzo, Ponferrada, 
Spain.
(2)Department of Cellular Pathology, Hospital de la Reina, Ponferrada, Spain.
(3)Research Department, Institute for Biomedical Research of A Coruña (INIBIC), 
University of A Coruña (UDC), A Coruña, Spain.
(4)Summit Health, New Providence, NJ, USA.
(5)Departments of Pathology and Dermatology, Los Angeles Medical Center (LAMC), 
Southern California Kaiser Permanente, Los Angeles, CA, USA. dsc9w@yahoo.com.
(6)Department of Pathology, Southern California Permanent Medical Group, Los 
Angeles Medical Center, 3867 Sunset Blvd, Los Angeles, CA, 90027, USA. 
dsc9w@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Desmoplastic melanoma is a rare subtype of melanoma mainly appearing 
on sun-exposed skin. Clinically, it is many times non-pigmented and therefore 
the diagnosis is often not suspected.
METHODS: Review article.
RESULTS: In this paper we review the main histopathological, 
immunohistochemical, and molecular features of desmoplastic melanoma, as well as 
the top 10 morphologic differential diagnoses which should be considered in most 
cases. The histopathological pattern can be many times deceptive, mimicking a 
scar, a fibrous reaction, a fibrohistiocytic tumor such as a dermatofibroma, a 
vascular tumor such as angiosarcoma, a smooth muscle tumor such as 
leiomyosarcoma, or a neural tumor. Although an overlying atypical junctional 
melanocytic proliferation may be seen in most cases, it is absent in a 
significant percentage (up to 30%) of cases, making the diagnosis even more 
difficult in those instances. The range of diagnostic pitfalls is wide, which 
may present disastrous prognostic consequences.
CONCLUSION: Desmoplastic melanoma is often a difficult diagnosis to make, as it 
frequently shows nonspecific clinical findings and overlapping histologic 
features with many other tumors. However, the potential clinical and prognostic 
consequences of misdiagnosis as another entity are great. Therefore, this 
diagnosis must always be kept in mind when encountering spindle cell tumors 
affecting the head and neck area.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12105-023-01536-y
PMCID: PMC10063748
PMID: 36928737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


504. Histopathology. 2023 Jul;83(1):3-14. doi: 10.1111/his.14904. Epub 2023 Mar
21.

Diagnostic test accuracy meta-analysis of PRAME in distinguishing primary 
cutaneous melanomas from benign melanocytic lesions.

Kunc M(1), Żemierowska N(2)(3), Skowronek F(4), Biernat W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathomorphology, Medical University of Gdańsk, Gdańsk.
(2)Student Scientific Circle of Pathomorphology, Medical University of Gdańsk, 
Gdańsk, Poland.
(3)University Clinical Hospital in Białystok, Białystok, Poland.
(4)Student Scientific Circle, Department of Cardiac Surgery, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.

PRAME is a novel immunohistochemical marker that aids the diagnosis of 
melanocytic lesions. Diffuse PRAME positivity suggests melanoma, whereas benign 
naevi are negative or only weakly positive. However, the factual diagnostic 
accuracy of PRAME is not well established. Moreover, some studies have suggested 
that the threshold of 3+/50% positive cells may be more useful in practice than 
the most widely used cut-off (4+/75% of positive cells). Hence, we performed a 
systematic review and diagnostic accuracy meta-analysis to evaluate sensitivity, 
specificity, likelihood ratios and optimal threshold for PRAME in distinguishing 
benign melanocytic proliferations from melanomas. Twenty-six studies were 
enrolled into the meta-analysis. A total of 2915 melanocytic lesions were 
analysed. The optimal threshold for PRAME positivity was estimated at 3.11, 
which translates into 3+ in practice. Sensitivity and specificity calculated 
from SROC at the 3+ threshold were 0.735 (0.631-0.818) and 0.915 (0.834-0.958), 
respectively, compared to 0.679 (0.559-0.957) and 0.957 (0.908-0.981) at the 4+ 
cut-off. In subgroup analysis, the spitzoid subgroup was characterised by the 
lowest sensitivity and diagnostic odds ratio of PRAME. Our findings indicate 
that PRAME immunohistochemistry may serve as an ancillary marker to support the 
diagnosis of melanoma. Nevertheless, the accuracy of PRAME may be lower in 
spitzoid neoplasms. Our meta-analysis suggests that the 3+/50% threshold might 
be more useful in practice than the 4+/75% cut-off, as it shows higher 
sensitivity with retained satisfactory specificity.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/his.14904
PMID: 36942814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Skin Res Technol. 2023 Mar;29(3):e13286. doi: 10.1111/srt.13286.

Detection of cutaneous malignant melanoma by tape stripping of pigmented skin 
lesions - A systematic review.

Thomsen IMN(1), Heerfordt IM(1), Karmisholt KE(1)(2), Mogensen M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Copenhagen University Hospital - Bispebjerg, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Cutaneous malignant melanoma (MM) is potentially aggressive, and 
numerous clinically suspicious pigmented skin lesions are excised, causing 
unnecessary mutilation for patients at high healthcare costs, but without 
histopathological evidence of MM. The high number of excisions may be lowered by 
using more accurate diagnostics. Tape stripping (TS) of clinically suspicious 
lesions is a non-invasive diagnostic test of MM that can potentially lower the 
number needed to biopsy/excise.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The aim is to determine the diagnostic accuracy of TS in 
detecting MM in clinically suspicious pigmented skin lesions. This systematic 
review following PRISMA guidelines searched PubMed, Web of Science, and Embase 
(September 2022) using melanoma combined with tape stripping, adhesive 
patch(es), pigmented lesion assay, or epidermal genetic information retrieval.
RESULTS: Ten studies were included. Sensitivity ranged from 68.8% (95% 
confidence interval [CI] 51.5, 82.1) to 100% (95% CI 91.0, 100). Specificity 
ranged from 69.1% (95% CI 63.8, 74.0) to 100% (95% CI 78.5, 100). A pooled 
analysis of five studies testing the RNA markers LINC00518 and PRAME found a 
sensitivity of 86.9% (95% CI 81.7, 90.8) and a specificity of 82.4% (95% CI 
80.8, 83.9).
CONCLUSION: Overall quality of studies was low, and the reliability of 
sensitivity and specificity is questionable. However, TS may supplement 
well-established diagnostic methods as pooled analysis of five studies indicates 
a moderate sensitivity. Future studies are needed to obtain more reliable data 
as independent studies with no conflict of interest.

© 2023 The Authors. Skin Research and Technology published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/srt.13286
PMCID: PMC10155806
PMID: 36973976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


506. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Mar 16;15(6):1801. doi: 10.3390/cancers15061801.

PRAME Promotes Cervical Cancer Proliferation and Migration via Wnt/β-Catenin 
Pathway Regulation.

Chen X(1), Jiang M(1), Zhou S(2), Chen H(1), Song G(1), Wu Y(1), Zhu X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Wenzhou Medical University, Wenzhou 325027, China.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Taizhou Women and Children's 
Hospital of Wenzhou Medical University, Taizhou 318000, China.

A significant burden is placed on the lives of females due to cervical cancer, 
which is currently the leading cause of cancer death among women. Preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) belongs to the CTA gene family and was 
found to be abnormally expressed among different types of cancers. Our previous 
research also indicated that PRAME was highly expressed in cervical cancer 
compared with normal tissues. However, the roles and detailed mechanisms of 
PRAME have not been explored in cervical cancer. In the present study, the 
expression of PRAME in cervical tissues and cells was detected by 
immunohistochemistry (IHC), qRT-PCR, and Western blotting. Additionally, CCK-8, 
BrdU, scratch, transwell, and flow cytometry assays were conducted to explore 
the function of PRAME in regulating the malignant biological behaviors of 
cervical cancer cells. Nude mice were used to confirm the role of PRAME in tumor 
growth in vivo. Furthermore, the Wnt inhibitor MSAB was used to verify the role 
of PRAME in regulating the Wnt/β-catenin pathway both in vitro and in vivo. The 
results of IHC, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting showed that PRAME was highly 
expressed in cervical cancer tissues and cells. PRAME knockdown attenuated cell 
growth, migration, and invasion; induced G0/G1 arrest; and increased cell 
apoptosis in C33A and SiHa cells through Wnt/β-catenin signaling regulation. 
However, the upregulation of PRAME exhibited the opposite effects accordingly, 
which could be partly reversed via MSAB treatment. The growth rate of xenograft 
tumors was enhanced when PRAME was overexpressed via Wnt/β-catenin signaling 
activation. Taken together, PRAME is associated with cervical cancer occurrence 
and progression mediated by Wnt/β-catenin signaling, suggesting that PRAME might 
be a factor in manipulating cervical carcinogenesis and a potential therapeutic 
target.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15061801
PMCID: PMC10046627
PMID: 36980687

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


507. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Mar 7;24(6):5134. doi: 10.3390/ijms24065134.

Aminooxy Click Modification of a Periodate-Oxidized Immunoglobulin G: A General 
Approach to Antibody-Drug Conjugates with Dye-Mediated Expeditious Stoichiometry 
Control.

Sapozhnikova KA(1), Gulyak EL(1), Brylev VA(1)(2), Misyurin VA(3), Oreshkov 
SD(1)(4), Alexeeva AV(5), Ryazantsev DY(1), Simonova MA(1), Ryabukhina EV(1), 
Popova GP(1), Tikhonova NA(5), Lyzhko NA(5), Barmashov AE(3), Misyurin AV(5), 
Ustinov AV(1)(2), Alferova VA(1), Korshun VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Shemyakin-Ovchinnikov Institute of Bioorganic Chemistry, Miklukho-Maklaya 
16/10, 117997 Moscow, Russia.
(2)Lumiprobe RUS Ltd., Kotsyubinskogo 4, 121351 Moscow, Russia.
(3)N.N. Blokhin National Medical Cancer Research Center, Ministry of Health of 
Russia, Kashirskoye sh. 24, 115478 Moscow, Russia.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Lomonosov Moscow State University, Leninskie Gory 
1/3, 119991 Moscow, Russia.
(5)GeneTechnology LLC, Profsoyuznaya 104, 117485 Moscow, Russia.

A universal approach to the construction of antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs) has 
been developed. It relies on periodate oxidation of naturally present glycans of 
immunoglobulin G, followed by oxime ligation and, optionally, 
copper(I)-catalyzed alkyne-azide cycloaddition for conjugation with a toxic 
payload. The introduction of highly absorbing cyanine dyes into the linker 
allows for facile determination of the drug-antibody ratio. We applied this 
methodology to the synthesis of cytotoxic conjugates of an antibody against the 
tumor-associated antigen PRAME with doxorubicin and monomethyl auristatin E 
(MMAE). The resultant conjugates retained their affinity to a large extent, yet 
their cytotoxicity in vitro varied dramatically: while the doxorubicin-based 
conjugate did not produce any effect on cells, the MMAE-based one demonstrated 
specific activity against PRAME-expressing cancer cell lines. Importantly, the 
latter conjugate constitutes the first reported example of a PRAME-targeting 
ADC.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24065134
PMCID: PMC10049567
PMID: 36982208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


508. Front Immunol. 2023 Mar 21;14:1121973. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1121973. 
eCollection 2023.

PRAME and CTCFL-reactive TCRs for the treatment of ovarian cancer.

van Amerongen RA(1), Tuit S(1), Wouters AK(1), van de Meent M(1), Siekman SL(1), 
Meeuwsen MH(1), Wachsmann TLA(1), Remst DFG(1), Hagedoorn RS(1), van der Steen 
DM(1), de Ru AH(2), Verdegaal EME(3), van Veelen PA(2), Falkenburg JHF(1), 
Heemskerk MHM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
Netherlands.
(2)Center for Proteomics and Metabolomics, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, Netherlands.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Oncode Institute, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, Netherlands.

Recurrent disease emerges in the majority of patients with ovarian cancer 
(OVCA). Adoptive T-cell therapies with T-cell receptors (TCRs) targeting 
tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) are considered promising solutions for 
less-immunogenic 'cold' ovarian tumors. In order to treat a broader patient 
population, more TCRs targeting peptides derived from different TAAs binding in 
various HLA class I molecules are essential. By performing a differential gene 
expression analysis using mRNA-seq datasets, PRAME, CTCFL and CLDN6 were 
selected as strictly tumor-specific TAAs, with high expression in ovarian cancer 
and at least 20-fold lower expression in all healthy tissues of risk. In primary 
OVCA patient samples and cell lines we confirmed expression and identified 
naturally expressed TAA-derived peptides in the HLA class I ligandome. 
Subsequently, high-avidity T-cell clones recognizing these peptides were 
isolated from the allo-HLA T-cell repertoire of healthy individuals. Three PRAME 
TCRs and one CTCFL TCR of the most promising T-cell clones were sequenced, and 
transferred to CD8+ T cells. The PRAME TCR-T cells demonstrated potent and 
specific antitumor reactivity in vitro and in vivo. The CTCFL TCR-T cells 
efficiently recognized primary patient-derived OVCA cells, and OVCA cell lines 
treated with demethylating agent 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine (DAC). The identified 
PRAME and CTCFL TCRs are promising candidates for the treatment of patients with 
ovarian cancer, and are an essential addition to the currently used HLA-A*02:01 
restricted PRAME TCRs. Our selection of differentially expressed genes, 
naturally expressed TAA peptides and potent TCRs can improve and broaden the use 
of T-cell therapies for patients with ovarian cancer or other PRAME or CTCFL 
expressing cancers.

Copyright © 2023 van Amerongen, Tuit, Wouters, van de Meent, Siekman, Meeuwsen, 
Wachsmann, Remst, Hagedoorn, van der Steen, de Ru, Verdegaal, van Veelen, 
Falkenburg and Heemskerk.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1121973
PMCID: PMC10070997
PMID: 37026005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


509. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Mar 28;24(7):6388. doi: 10.3390/ijms24076388.

Standardized Computer-Assisted Analysis of PRAME Immunoreactivity in Dysplastic 
Nevi and Superficial Spreading Melanomas.

Koch EAT(1)(2), Erdmann M(1)(2), Berking C(1)(2), Kiesewetter F(3), Kramer 
R(1)(2), Schliep S(1)(2), Heppt MV(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Uniklinikum Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-University Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), 91054 Erlangen, Germany.
(2)Comprehensive Cancer Center Erlangen-European Metropolitan Area of Nuremberg 
(CCC ER-EMN), 91054 Erlangen, Germany.
(3)MVZ Pathology, Sozialstifung Bamberg, 96049 Bamberg, Germany.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a cancer testis antigen 
that is frequently expressed in melanoma compared to benign melanocytic 
proliferations and nevi. However, the interpretation of the intensity and 
distribution of PRAME immunostaining is not standardized a lot, which makes 
interpretation difficult. PRAME-stained histological slides of superficial 
spreading melanomas (SSM) and dysplastic nevi (DN) were digitized and analyzed 
using the digital pathology and image platform QuPath. t-tests and ROC AUCs were 
performed with SPSS. A p-value of <0.05 was used for statistical significance, 
and a ROC AUC score of >0.8 was considered a good result. A cut-off score was 
defined in an evaluation cohort and subsequently analyzed in an independent 
validation cohort. In total, 81 PRAME-stained specimens were included. The 
evaluation cohort included 32 (50%) SSM and 32 (50%) DN, and the mean of 
PRAME-positive cells/mm2 for the entire lesion was 455.3 (SD 428.2) in SSM and 
60.5 (SD 130.1; p < 0.001) in DN. The ROC AUC of PRAME-positive cells of the 
entire lesion was 0.866, and in the epidermis it was 0.901. The defined cut-off 
score to distinguish between DN and SSM was 97.67 cells/mm2. In the validation 
cohort, 16 out of 17 cases (94.1%) were correctly classified by the cut-off 
score. The computer-aided assessment of PRAME immunostaining is a useful tool in 
dermatopathology to distinguish between DN and SSM. Lesions with a moderate 
expression and indifferent morphologic features will remain a challenge for 
dermatopathologists.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24076388
PMCID: PMC10094429
PMID: 37047361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: C.B. received honoraria (advisory board, 
speaker) from Almirall-Hermal, BMS, Immunocore, InflaRx, Leo Pharma, MSD, 
Novartis, Pierre Fabre, Regeneron, and Sanofi. M.E. received honoraria from 
Novartis and Immunocore. M.V.H. received honoraria from Sanofi, Almirall, 
Biofrontera, and Galderma.


510. J Cancer. 2023 Feb 27;14(4):628-633. doi: 10.7150/jca.82389. eCollection
2023.

PReferentially Expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME): preliminary communication 
on a translational tool able to early detect Oral Malignant Melanoma (OMM).

Cascardi E(1)(2), Cazzato G(3), Ingravallo G(3), Dellino M(4), Lupo C(5), 
Casatta N(5), Ballini A(6), Pacifici A(7), Marenzi G(8), Sammartino G(8), 
Maiorano E(3), Tatullo M(8)(9)(10)(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences, University of Turin, 10124 Turin, Italy.
(2)Pathology Unit, FPO-IRCCS Candiolo Cancer Institute, 10123 Candiolo, Italy.
(3)Section of Molecular Pathology Department of Precision and Regenerative 
Medicine and Ionian Area (DiMePRe-J), University of Bari "Aldo Moro", Bari, 
70124, Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedical Sciences and Human Oncology, University of Bari, 
70121 Bari, Italy.
(5)Innovation Department, Diapath S.p.A., Via Savoldini n.71, 24057 Martinengo, 
Italy.
(6)Department of Precision Medicine, University of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli", 
80138 Naples, Italy.
(7)Department of Oral and Maxillo-Facial Sciences, Sapienza University of Rome, 
00195 Rome, Italy.
(8)Department of Neurosciences, Reproductive and Odontostomatological Sciences, 
University "Federico II" of Naples, via S. Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, Italy.
(9)Department of Translational Biomedicine and Neuroscience (DiBraiN), 
University of Bari ALDO MORO, 70124 Bari, Italy.
(10)Honorary Senior Clinical Lecturer- University of Dundee, Dundee, Scotland 
DD1 4HR, UK.
(11)Founder Member of MIRROR-Medical Institute for Regeneration and Repairing 
and Organ Replacement, Interdepartmental Center, University of Bari ALDO MORO, 
70124 Bari, Italy.

Oral malignant melanoma (OMM) has a prevalence less than 1% of all melanomas and 
it commonly develops on the oral mucosa following a slow and unspecific 
transformation of unstable melanocytic lesions, often resulting in a diagnostic 
delay. The marker PReferentially Expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) seems to 
be a valid tool to investigate the biological and histological nature of 
cutaneous melanocytic lesions, but to date its use to characterize pigmented 
lesions in the oral cavity is largely unexplored. The aim of this study was to 
create preliminary knowledge on the PRAME expression in OMM, and to compare its 
expression respect to other dysplastic pigmented lesions of the oral cavity. 
Interestingly, PRAME has been demonstrated to be reliable in the clinical 
conditions investigated in our pilot study; in fact, it has clearly 
differentiated the cases of Melanoma, which showed diffuse and intense 
positivity (score 6+/7+) to PRAME, from the other melanocytic nevi, which 
resulted to be mainly negative to PRAME. This means a better differential 
diagnosis, a reliable early diagnosis and a proper clinical/surgical management 
of the oncological lesions. In conclusion, PRAME can be a valid qualitative 
marker for differential diagnosis, not only in cutaneous melanomas, but also in 
malignant melanoma of the entire head and neck area.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/jca.82389
PMCID: PMC10088532
PMID: 37057287

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


511. Skin Res Technol. 2023 Apr;29(4):e13323. doi: 10.1111/srt.13323.

Dermoscopic features associated with 3-GEP PLA: LINC00518, PRAME, and TERT 
expression in suspicious pigmented lesions.

Ludzik J(1), Becker AL(1)(2), Latour E(3), Lee C(4), Witkowski A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, USA.
(2)John A. Burns School of Medicine, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, Honolulu, 
Hawaii, USA.
(3)Biostatistics Shared Resource, Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon Health & 
Science University, Portland, Oregon, USA.
(4)University of California Riverside School of Medicine, Riverside, California, 
USA.

Utilization of dermoscopy and novel molecular triage technologies augments 
visual triage of pigmented skin lesions, promoting early detection of melanoma. 
One emerging in vivo genomic test, 3-GEP pigmented lesion assay (3-GEP PLA) aids 
in pigmented lesion triage by noninvasively detecting the presence of three 
genes associated with melanoma: LINC00518, PRAME, and TERT. The purpose of our 
retrospective case-control study was to identify dermoscopic features uniquely 
associated with the presence of LINC00518, PRAME, or TERT in the stratum corneum 
as determined by 3-GEP PLA testing. Images of suspicious pigmented lesions that 
had undergone 3-GEP PLA testing and received a definitive positive or negative 
result (n = 393) were evaluated for the presence of specific clinical and 
dermoscopic features associated with melanoma. We found that asymmetry of color 
was a significant predictor for PRAME expression (Odds Ratio (OR) 5.5, 95% 
Confidence Interval (CI) 1.6-34.5, p = 0.004), blue color and negative pigment 
network were significant predictors for LINC00518 expression (adjusted OR 2.7, 
95% CI 1.2-5.5, p = 0.014 and adjusted OR 5.4, 95% CI 1.6-16.9, p = 0.010, 
respectively), and atypical polymorphous vessels present in a pigmented skin 
lesion were a significant predictor for TERT promoter mutations (OR 5.8, 95% CI 
1.3-23.4, p = 0.022). The results presented suggest a hierarchy in the 
significance of these dermoscopic features and may help guide evaluation and 
management of pigmented skin lesions.

© 2023 The Authors. Skin Research and Technology published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/srt.13323
PMCID: PMC10234169
PMID: 37083005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Joanna Ludzik completed educational training for 
speakers sponsored by Dermtech Inc. The other authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


512. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Aug;50(8):763-772. doi: 10.1111/cup.14438. Epub 2023
Apr  27.

Potential diagnostic utility of PRAME and p16 immunohistochemistry in 
melanocytic nevi and malignant melanoma.

Bahmad HF(1), Oh KS(1), Alexis J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)The Arkadi M. Rywlin M.D. Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, 
Mount Sinai Medical Center, Miami Beach, Florida, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Herbert Wertheim College of Medicine, Florida 
International University, Miami Beach, Florida, USA.

BACKGROUND: PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a 
tumor-associated antigen that has been studied in various cutaneous melanocytic 
lesions. p16, on the other hand, has been proposed to aid in distinguishing 
between benign and malignant melanocytic neoplasms. Studies on the diagnostic 
utility of PRAME and p16 in combination in differentiating nevi from melanoma 
are limited. We aimed to assess the diagnostic utility of PRAME and p16 in 
melanocytic tumors and their role in distinguishing between malignant melanomas 
and melanocytic nevi.
METHODS: This is a single-center retrospective cohort analysis over a 4-year 
period (2017-2020). We used the pathological database of malignant melanomas (77 
cases) and melanocytic nevi (51 cases) specimens from patients who underwent 
shave/punch biopsies or surgical excisions and evaluated immunohistochemical 
staining percentage positivity and intensity for PRAME and p16.
RESULTS: Most malignant melanomas showed positive/diffuse PRAME expression 
(89.6%); on the other hand, 96.1% of nevi did not express PRAME diffusely. p16 
was expressed consistently in nevi (98.0%). However, p16 expression in malignant 
melanoma was infrequent in our study. PRAME had a sensitivity and specificity of 
89.6% and 96.1%, respectively, for melanomas versus nevi; on the other hand, p16 
had a sensitivity and specificity of 98.0% and 28.6%, respectively, for nevi 
versus melanoma. Also, a PRAME+/p16- melanocytic lesion is unlikely to be a 
nevus where most nevi were PRAME-/p16+.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, we confirm the potential utility of PRAME and p16 for 
distinguishing melanocytic nevi from malignant melanomas.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14438
PMID: 37114299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Front Genet. 2023 Apr 21;14:1144945. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2023.1144945. 
eCollection 2023.

Transcriptomic insights into adenoid cystic carcinoma via RNA sequencing.

Tang YF(1)(2)(3)(4), An PG(1)(2)(3), Gu BX(1)(2)(3), Yi S(1)(2)(3), Hu 
X(1)(2)(3), Wu WJ(1)(2)(3), Zhang J(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Peking University School and 
Hospital of Stomatology, Beijing, China.
(2)National Center of Stomatology and National Clinical Research Center for Oral 
Diseases, Beijing, China.
(3)Central Laboratory, Peking University School and Hospital of Stomatology, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Stomatology, Xinqiao Hospital (the Second Affiliated Hospital), 
Army Medical University, Chongqing, China.

Background: The aim of this study was to investigate the underlying mechanisms 
of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) at the transcriptome level. Materials and 
methods: We obtained paired tumor and normal salivary gland tissues from 15 ACC 
patients, which were prepared for RNA sequencing. Results: Gene enrichment 
analysis revealed that the upregulated pathways were mainly involved in 
axonogenesis, and the downregulated pathways were mainly related to leukocyte 
migration, the adaptive immune response, lymphocyte-mediated immunity, and the 
humoral immune response. T-cells, B-cells and NK cells showed low infiltration 
in ACC tissues. In addition to the gene fusions MYB-NFIB and MYBL1-NFIB, a new 
gene fusion, TVP23C-CDRT4, was also detected in 3 ACC tissues. PRAME was 
significantly upregulated in ACC tissues, while antigen-presenting human 
leukocyte antigen (HLA) genes were downregulated. Conclusion: We found a new 
gene fusion, TVP23C-CDRT4, that was highly expressed in ACC. PRAME may be an 
attractive target for ACC immunotherapy.

Copyright © 2023 Tang, An, Gu, Yi, Hu, Wu and Zhang.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2023.1144945
PMCID: PMC10160386
PMID: 37152992

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


514. Res Sq. 2023 Apr 26:rs.3.rs-2861359. doi: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-2861359/v1.
Preprint.

PRAME induces genomic instability in uveal melanoma.

Kurtenbach S(1)(2)(3)(4), Sanchez MI(1)(2)(3)(4), Kuznetsoff J(1)(2)(3), 
Rodriguez DA(1)(2)(3), Weich N(2), Dollar J(1)(2)(3), Cruz A(1)(2)(3), 
Kurtenbach S(1)(2)(3), Field MG(1)(2)(3), Durante MA(1)(2)(3), Decatur 
C(1)(2)(3), Sorouri M(5), Lai F(2), Shiekhattar R(2), Pelaez D(1)(2)(3), Correa 
ZM(1)(2)(3), Verdun RE(2), Harbour JW(5).

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, Stem Cell Institute, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL.
(2)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, Stem Cell Institute, University of 
Miami Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL.
(3)Interdisciplinary, Stem Cell Institute, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL.
(4)These authors contributed equally.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology and Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX.

Update in
    Oncogene. 2023 Nov 29;:

PRAME is a CUL2 ubiquitin ligase subunit that is normally expressed in the 
testis but becomes aberrantly overexpressed in many cancer types in association 
with aneuploidy and metastasis. Here, we show that PRAME is expressed 
predominantly in spermatogonia around the time of meiotic crossing-over in 
coordination with genes mediating DNA double strand break repair. Expression of 
PRAME in somatic cells upregulates pathways involved in meiosis, chromosome 
segregation and DNA repair, and it leads to increased DNA double strand breaks, 
telomere dysfunction and aneuploidy in neoplastic and non-neoplastic cells. This 
effect is mediated at least in part by ubiquitination of SMC1A and altered 
cohesin function. PRAME expression renders cells susceptible to inhibition of 
PARP1/2, suggesting increased dependence on alternative base excision repair 
pathways. These findings reveal a distinct oncogenic function of PRAME than can 
be targeted therapeutically in cancer.

DOI: 10.21203/rs.3.rs-2861359/v1
PMCID: PMC10168463
PMID: 37162820

Conflict of interest statement: Additional Declarations: Yes there is potential 
Competing Interest. Dr. Harbour is the inventor of intellectual property related 
to prognostic testing in uveal melanoma. He is a paid consultant for Castle 
Biosciences, licensee of this intellectual property, and he receives royalties 
from its commercialization. The work herein is not included in this intellectual 
property.


515. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Apr 22;15(9):2415. doi: 10.3390/cancers15092415.

PRAME Is a Novel Target of Tumor-Intrinsic Gas6/Axl Activation and Promotes 
Cancer Cell Invasion in Hepatocellular Carcinoma.

Hedrich V(1), Breitenecker K(1), Ortmayr G(1), Pupp F(1), Huber H(1), Chen D(2), 
Sahoo S(3), Jolly MK(3), Mikulits W(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Cancer Research, Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical University 
of Vienna, 1090 Vienna, Austria.
(2)Department of Chromosome Biology, Max Perutz Labs Vienna, University of 
Vienna, 1030 Vienna, Austria.
(3)Centre for BioSystems Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Science, 
Bangalore 560012, India.

(1) Background: Activation of the receptor tyrosine kinase Axl by Gas6 fosters 
oncogenic effects in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), associating with increased 
mortality of patients. The impact of Gas6/Axl signaling on the induction of 
individual target genes in HCC and its consequences is an open issue. (2) 
Methods: RNA-seq analysis of Gas6-stimulated Axl-proficient or Axl-deficient HCC 
cells was used to identify Gas6/Axl targets. Gain- and loss-of-function studies 
as well as proteomics were employed to characterize the role of PRAME 
(preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma). Expression of Axl/PRAME was 
assessed in publicly available HCC patient datasets and in 133 HCC cases. (3) 
Results: Exploitation of well-characterized HCC models expressing Axl or devoid 
of Axl allowed the identification of target genes including PRAME. Intervention 
with Axl signaling or MAPK/ERK1/2 resulted in reduced PRAME expression. PRAME 
levels were associated with a mesenchymal-like phenotype augmenting 2D cell 
migration and 3D cell invasion. Interactions with pro-oncogenic proteins such as 
CCAR1 suggested further tumor-promoting functions of PRAME in HCC. Moreover, 
PRAME showed elevated expression in Axl-stratified HCC patients, which 
correlates with vascular invasion and lowered patient survival. (4) Conclusions: 
PRAME is a bona fide target of Gas6/Axl/ERK signaling linked to EMT and cancer 
cell invasion in HCC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15092415
PMCID: PMC10177160
PMID: 37173882

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


516. Ophthalmol Sci. 2023 Mar 11;3(3):100297. doi: 10.1016/j.xops.2023.100297. 
eCollection 2023 Sep.

Increased Histological Tumor Pigmentation in Uveal Melanoma Is Related to Eye 
Color and Loss of Chromosome 3/BAP1.

Gelmi MC(1), Wierenga APA(1), Kroes WGM(2), van Duinen SG(3), Karuntu JS(1), 
Marinkovic M(1), Bleeker JC(1), Luyten GPM(1), Vu THK(1), Verdijk RM(3)(4), 
Jager MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Pathology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(4)Section Ophthalmic Pathology, Department of Pathology, Erasmus MC University 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Heavy pigmentation is known to be a prognostic risk factor in uveal 
melanoma (UM). We analyzed whether genetic tumor parameters were associated with 
tumor pigmentation and whether pigmentation should be included in prognostic 
tests.
DESIGN: Retrospective comparison of clinical, histopathological, and genetic 
features and survival in UM with different pigmentation.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 1058 patients with UM from a White European population 
with diverse eye colors enucleated between 1972 and 2021.
METHODS: Cox regression and log-rank tests were used for survival analysis; the 
chi-square test and Mann-Whitney U test were used for correlation analysis.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Uveal melanoma-related survival based on tumor 
pigmentation and chromosome status, correlation of tumor pigmentation with 
prognostic factors.
RESULTS: The 5-year UM-related mortality was 8% in patients with nonpigmented 
tumors (n = 54), 25% with lightly pigmented tumors (n = 489), 41% with 
moderately pigmented tumors (n = 333), and 33% with dark tumors (n = 178) 
(P < 0.001). The percentage of tumors with monosomy 3 (M3) or 8q gain increased 
with increasing pigmentation (31%, 46%, 62%, and 70% having M3 [P < 0.001], and 
19%, 43%, 61%, and 63% having 8q gain [P < 0.001] in the 4 increasing pigment 
groups, respectively). BRCA-associated protein 1 (BAP1) loss (known for 204 
cases) was associated with increased tumor pigmentation (P = 0.001). Cox 
regression analysis on survival showed that when chromosome status and 
pigmentation were both included, pigmentation was not an independent prognostic 
indicator. Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) expression was a 
significant prognostic marker in light tumors (P = 0.02) but not in dark tumors 
(P = 0.85).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with moderately and heavily pigmented tumors showed a 
significantly higher UM-related mortality than patients with unpigmented and 
light tumors (P < 0.001), supporting prior reports on the relation between 
increased tumor pigmentation and a worse prognosis. Although we previously 
showed that a dark eye color was associated with tumor pigmentation, we now show 
that the tumor's genetic status (chromosome 3 and 8q/BAP1 status) is also 
related to tumor pigmentation. When pigmentation and chromosome 3 status are 
both included in a Cox regression analysis, pigmentation is not an independent 
prognostic factor. However, evidence from this and previous studies shows that 
chromosome changes and PRAME expression have a stronger association with 
survival when they occur in light tumors than in dark ones. Financial 
Disclosure(s): Proprietary or commercial disclosure may be found after the 
references.

© 2023 by the American Academy of Ophthalmology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xops.2023.100297
PMCID: PMC10182323
PMID: 37193315


517. Hum Pathol. 2023 Aug;138:12-17. doi: 10.1016/j.humpath.2023.05.006. Epub
2023  May 18.

Diagnostic utility of PRAME immunohistochemistry in PEComa family of tumors and 
morphologic mimics with emphasis on the gynecologic tract.

Smithgall MC(1), Liu-Jarin X(2), Chen X(2), Singh K(3), Quddus MR(3), Cimic 
A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, 10032, USA. Electronic address: mcs2244@cumc.columbia.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Irving Medical 
Center, New York, NY, 10032, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Brown University, 
Providence, RI, 02903, USA.

Perivascular epithelioid cell tumors (PEComas), rare mesenchymal tumors with 
myomelanocytic differentiation, can be a diagnostic challenge, often requiring a 
panel of immunohistochemical markers. Preferentially expressed antigen in 
melanoma (PRAME) is a relatively new antigen with utility in diagnosing 
melanomas. This study aimed to survey PRAME expression patterns in the PEComa 
family of tumors and morphologic mimics. Twenty cases of PEComas and 27 
non-PEComas (10 leiomyosarcomas, 3 smooth muscle tumors of uncertain malignant 
potential [STUMPs], 11 leiomyomas, 1 uterine inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor 
[IMT], and 2 low-grade endometrial stromal sarcomas [LGESSs]) were stained with 
PRAME and compared to previously performed HMB45 and Melan-A stains, when 
available. Tumors showing no or barely perceptible PRAME staining at 10× were 
considered negative. Tumors were considered positive if there was full nuclear 
staining evident at 10× in at least one 10× field. Diffuse staining was defined 
as positivity in at least 80% of tumor nuclei. Overall, PRAME was expressed in 
70% of PEComas, with diffuse positivity in 60%. However, PRAME was not specific 
for PEComas, with immunopositivity in the majority (70%) of uterine 
leiomyosarcoma cases, though negative in STUMP, leiomyoma, IMT, and LGESS cases. 
PRAME sensitivity was 70% and specificity was 74%, while HMB45 was more 
sensitive (90%) and specific (100%), but only 15% of PEComas showed diffuse 
staining. Melan-A staining was less common than HMB45 or PRAME, with only 18.8% 
sensitivity but 100% specificity. Among gynecologic PEComas, PRAME was expressed 
in 75% overall and enriched among malignant cases (85.7% positive). As part of 
an immunohistochemical panel, PRAME could be useful in the workup of PEComa 
cases. In the future, PRAME-specific immunotherapies may be beneficial in 
treating patients with malignant PEComas.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humpath.2023.05.006
PMID: 37209921


518. Pathol Res Pract. 2023 Jul;247:154543. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2023.154543. Epub
2023  May 18.

Immunohistochemical expression of PRAME is a marker of poor prognosis in uveal 
melanoma: A clinico-pathologic and immunohistochemical study on a series of 85 
cases.

Broggi G(1), Failla M(2), Russo A(3), Longo A(3), Palicelli A(4), Zanelli M(4), 
Lombardo C(5), Loreto C(5), Merolla F(6), Di Crescenzo RM(7), Ilardi G(7), 
Varricchio S(7), Staibano S(7), Caltabiano R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical, Surgical Sciences and Advanced Technologies "G.F. 
Ingrassia", Anatomic Pathology, University of Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy. 
Electronic address: giuseppe.broggi@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medical, Surgical Sciences and Advanced Technologies "G.F. 
Ingrassia", Anatomic Pathology, University of Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(3)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(4)Pathology Unit, Azienda USL-IRCCS di Reggio Emilia, 42123 Reggio Emilia, 
Italy.
(5)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences and Advanced Technologies "G.F. 
Ingrassia", Human Anatomy, University of Catania, 95123 Catania, Italy.
(6)Department of Medicine and Health Sciences "V. Tiberio", University of 
Molise, 86100 Campobasso, Italy.
(7)Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, Pathology Section, University of 
Naples "Federico II", 80131 Naples, Italy.

PReferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer testis antigen, 
first isolated in tumor-reactive T-cell clones from a metastatic melanoma 
patient. It has been widely studied in skin pathology as an immunohistochemical 
marker capable of distinguishing between benign nevi and malignant melanomas. 
PRAME has been found to be also expressed in non-melanocytic tumors, including 
lung, breast, kidney and ovarian cancer. However, less is known about the 
diagnostic and/or prognostic role of this protein in uveal melanoma (UM); few 
studies have reported that PRAME expression seems to give to UM patients an 
additional metastatic risk beyond the other already-known prognostic parameters. 
In the present retrospective study, we aimed to correlate PRAME immunoreactivity 
to other clinico-pathologic features and follow-up data on a large series of 85 
cases (45 non-metastasizing and 40 metastasizing tumors) of primary UM. A 
statistically significant correlation was found between PRAME expression and 
higher metastatic risk and lower metastasis-free survival. We propose to include 
PRAME in the immunohistochemical panel of UM as an easily usable marker capable 
of predicting higher metastatic risk and stratifying patients' outcome.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2023.154543
PMID: 37210771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


519. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2023 Sep;89(3):537-543. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2023.05.030.
 Epub 2023 May 22.

RNA analysis of tape strips to rule out melanoma in lesions clinically assessed 
as cutaneous malignant melanoma: A diagnostic study.

Heerfordt IM(1), Philipsen PA(2), Andersen JD(3), Langhans L(4), Schmidt G(4), 
Morling N(3), Wulf HC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Copenhagen University Hospital - Bispebjerg and 
Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: 
ida.marie.heerfordt@regionh.dk.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Copenhagen University Hospital - Bispebjerg and 
Frederiksberg, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Section of Forensic Genetics, Department of Forensic Medicine, Faculty of 
Health and Medical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Department of Plastic Surgery and Burns Treatment, Copenhagen University 
Hospital - Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Distinguishing cutaneous malignant melanoma (CMM) from nevi can be 
clinically challenging. Suspicious lesions are therefore excised, resulting in 
many benign lesions being removed surgically to find 1 CMM. It has been proposed 
to use tape strip derived ribonucleic acid (RNA) to distinguish CMM from nevi.
OBJECTIVE: To develop this technique further and validate if RNA profiles can 
rule out CMM in clinically suspicious lesions with 100% sensitivity.
METHODS: Before surgical excision, 200 lesions clinically assessed as CMM were 
tape stripped. Expression levels of 11 genes on the tapes were investigated by 
RNA measurement and used in a rule-out test.
RESULTS: Histopathology showed that 73 CMMs and 127 non-CMMs were included. Our 
test correctly identified all CMMs (100% sensitivity) based on the expression 
levels of 2 oncogenes, PRAME and KIT, relative to a housekeeping gene. Patient 
age and sample storage time were also significant. Simultaneously, our test 
correctly excluded CMM in 32% of non-CMM lesions (32% specificity).
LIMITATIONS: Our sample contained a very high proportion of CMMs, perhaps due to 
inclusion during COVID-19 shutdown. Validation in a separate trial must be 
performed.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that the technique can reduce removal of 
benign lesions by one-third without overlooking any CMMs.

Copyright © 2023 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2023.05.030
PMID: 37224970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest None disclosed.


520. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Aug;50(8):739-747. doi: 10.1111/cup.14470. Epub 2023
May  25.

Clinicopathologic and genetic characterization of invasive melanoma with BRAF 
V600K mutation: A study of 16 cases.

Goto K(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9), Yoshikawa S(10), Takai T(2), Tachibana 
K(11)(12), Honma K(3), Isei T(13), Kukita Y(14), Oishi T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Sunto, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Hyogo Cancer Center, Akashi, Japan.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Cytology, Osaka International Cancer 
Institute, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Pathology, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Disease 
Center Komagome Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Pathology, Itabashi Central Clinical Laboratory, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Chutoen General Medical Center, Kakegawa, 
Japan.
(8)Department of Clinical Laboratory and Diagnostic Pathology, Osaka National 
Hospital, Osaka, Japan.
(9)Department of Dermato-Oncology/Dermatology, National Hospital Organization 
Kagoshima Medical Center, Kagoshima, Japan.
(10)Department of Dermatology, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Sunto, Japan.
(11)Department of Dermatology, Okayama University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama, Japan.
(12)Melanoma Center, Okayama University Hospital, Okayama, Japan.
(13)Department of Dermatologic Oncology, Osaka International Cancer Institute, 
Osaka, Japan.
(14)Laboratory of Genomic Pathology, Research Center, Osaka International Cancer 
Institute, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The clinicopathologic and genetic features of cutaneous melanoma 
with a BRAF V600K mutation are not well-known. We aimed to evaluate these 
characteristics in comparison with those associated with BRAF V600E.
METHODS: Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and/or the MassARRAY® system 
were used to detect BRAF V600K in 16 invasive melanomas and confirm BRAF V600E 
in another 60 cases. Immunohistochemistry and panel next-generation sequencing 
were used to evaluate protein expression and tumor mutation burden, 
respectively.
RESULTS: The median age of melanoma patients harboring the BRAF V600K mutation 
(72.5 years) was higher than those with the BRAF V600E (58.5 years). The two 
groups also differed in sex (13/16 [81.3%] male in the V600K group vs. 23/60 
[38.3%] in V600E) and in the frequency of scalp involvement (8/16 [50.0%] in 
V600K vs. 1/60 [1.6%] in V600E). The clinical appearance was similar to a 
superficial spreading melanoma. Histopathologically, non-nested lentiginous 
intraepidermal spread and subtle solar elastosis were observed. One patient 
(1/13, 7.7%) had a pre-existing intradermal nevus. Diffuse PRAME 
immunoexpression was seen in only one (14.3%) of seven tested cases. Loss of p16 
expression was observed in all 12 cases (100%) analyzed. The tumor mutation 
burden was 8 and 6 mutations/Mb in the two tested cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Melanoma carrying the BRAF V600K mutation showed the predominance 
on the scalp of elderly men, lentiginous intraepidermal growth, subtle solar 
elastosis, possible existence of intradermal nevus component, frequent loss of 
p16 immunoexpression, limited immunoreactivity for PRAME, and intermediate tumor 
mutation burden.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14470
PMID: 37226844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Front Surg. 2022 Sep 5;9:923473. doi: 10.3389/fsurg.2022.923473. eCollection
 2022.

A seven-gene prognosis model to predict biochemical recurrence for prostate 
cancer based on the TCGA database.

He Y(1), Zhang J(1), Chen Z(1), Sun K(1), Wu X(1), Wu J(1), Sheng L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Huadong Hospital Affiliated to Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: The incidence rate of prostate cancer is increasing rapidly. This 
study aims to explore the gene-associated mechanism of prostate cancer 
biochemical recurrence (BCR) after radical prostatectomy and to construct a 
biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer prognostic model.
METHODS: The DEseq2 R package was used for the differential expression of mRNA. 
The ClusterProfiler R package was used to analyze the functional enrichment of 
Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) to explore 
related mechanisms. The Survival, Survminer, and My.stepwise R packages were 
used to construct the prognostic model to predict the biochemical 
recurrence-free probability. The RMS R package was used to draw the nomogram. 
For evaluating the prognostic model, the timeROC R package was used to draw the 
time-dependent ROC curve (receiver operating characteristic curve).
RESULT: To investigate the association between mRNA and prostate cancer, we 
performed differential expression analysis on the TCGA (The Cancer Genome Atlas) 
database. Seven protein-coding genes (VWA5B2, ARC, SOX11, MGAM, FOXN4, PRAME, 
and MMP26) were picked as independent prognostic genes by regression analysis. 
Based on their Cox coefficient, a risk score formula was proposed. According to 
the risk scores, patients were divided into high- and low-risk groups based on 
the median score. Kaplan-Meier plot curves showed that the low-risk group had a 
better biochemical recurrence-free probability compared to the high-risk group. 
The 1-year, 3-year, and 5-year AUCs (areas under the ROC curve) of the model 
were 77%, 81%, and 86%, respectively. In addition, we built a nomogram based on 
the result of multivariate Cox regression analysis. Furthermore, we select the 
GSE46602 dataset as our external validation. The 1-year, 3-year, and 5-year AUCs 
of BCR-free probability were 83%, 82%, and 80%, respectively. Finally, the 
levels of seven genes showed a difference between PRAD tissues and adjacent 
non-tumorous tissues.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that establishing a biochemical recurrence 
prediction prognostic model comprising seven protein-coding genes is an 
effective and precise method for predicting the progression of prostate cancer.

© 2022 He, Zhang, Chen, Sun, Wu, Wu and Sheng.

DOI: 10.3389/fsurg.2022.923473
PMCID: PMC10226533
PMID: 37255653

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


522. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2023 Oct;37(10):e1245-e1247. doi: 
10.1111/jdv.19241. Epub 2023 Jun 15.

Clinical role of PRAME expression in melanocytic tumours: A single-centre 
real-world retrospective study.

Hidalgo L(1), Peirano D(1), Donoso F(1), Villagrán S(1), Carrasco K(1), Rossi 
AM(2)(3), Villarroel A(4), Del Puerto C(5), Villaseca-Hernández M(1)(4)(6), 
Navarrete-Dechent C(1)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Escuela de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Dermatology Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York City, 
New York, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Weill Cornell Medicine, New York City, New York, 
USA.
(4)Department of Pathology, Escuela de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad Católica 
de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Clínica Alemana de Santiago-Universidad del 
Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile.
(6)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad de la Frontera, 
Temuco, Chile.
(7)Melanoma and Skin Cancer Unit, Escuela de Medicina, Pontificia Universidad 
Católica de Chile, Santiago, Chile.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.19241
PMID: 37287094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. R Soc Open Sci. 2023 Jun 7;10(6):230059. doi: 10.1098/rsos.230059.
eCollection  2023 Jun.

Secondary ion mass spectrometry, a powerful tool for revealing ink formulations 
and animal skins in medieval manuscripts.

Gravis D(1)(2), Roy N(1)(3), Ruffini-Ronzani N(4), Houssiau L(1), Felten 
A(1)(5), Tumanov N(1)(6), Deparis O(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Namur Institute of Structured Matter (NISM), University of Namur, Namur 5000, 
Belgium.
(2)Heritages, transmissions, inheritances institute (PaTHs), University of 
Namur, Namur 5000, Belgium.
(3)Namur Institute for Complex Systems (naXys), University of Namur, Namur 5000, 
Belgium.
(4)Centre de recherche Pratiques médiévales de l'écrit (PraME), Department of 
History, University of Namur, Namur 5000, Belgium.
(5)Synthesis, irradiation & analysis of materials (SIAM) technological platform, 
University of Namur, Namur 5000, Belgium.
(6)Physico-chemical characterization (PC2) technological platform, University of 
Namur, Namur 5000, Belgium.

Book production by medieval scriptoria have gained growing interest in recent 
studies. In this context, identifying ink compositions and parchment animal 
species from illuminated manuscripts is of great importance. Here, we introduce 
time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometry (ToF-SIMS) as a non-invasive tool 
to identify both inks and animal skins in manuscripts, at the same time. For 
this purpose, both positive and negative ion spectra in inked and non-inked 
areas were recorded. Chemical compositions of pigments (decoration) or black 
inks (text) were determined by searching for characteristic ion mass peaks. 
Animal skins were identified by data processing of raw ToF-SIMS spectra using 
principal component analysis (PCA). In illuminated manuscripts from the 
fifteenth to sixteenth century, malachite (green), azurite (blue), cinnabar 
(red) inorganic pigments, as well as iron-gall black ink, were identified. 
Carbon black and indigo (blue) organic pigments were also identified. Animal 
skins were identified in modern parchments of known animal species by a two-step 
PCA procedure. We believe the proposed method will find extensive application in 
material studies of medieval manuscripts, as it is non-invasive, highly 
sensitive and able to identify both inks and animal skins at the same time, even 
from traces of pigments and tiny scanned areas.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1098/rsos.230059
PMCID: PMC10245198
PMID: 37293355

Conflict of interest statement: We declare we have no competing interests.


524. Am J Dermatopathol. 2023 Jul 1;45(7):437-447. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002357.  Epub 2023 Feb 17.

PRAME Immunohistochemical Expression and TERT Promoter Mutational Analysis as 
Ancillary Diagnostic Tools for Differentiating Proliferative Nodules From 
Melanoma Arising in Congenital Nevi.

Boutko A(1), Hagstrom M(1), Lampley N(1), Roth A(1), Olivares S(2), Dhillon 
S(2), Fumero-Velázquez M(2), Benton S(2), Zhao J(2), Zhang B(2), Dittmann D(3), 
Asadbeigi S(4), Busam KJ(5), Gerami P(6).

Author information:
(1)Research Fellow, Department of Dermatology, Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.
(2)Research Technologist, Department of Dermatology, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.
(3)Developmental Coordinator, Department of Molecular Pathology, Feinberg School 
of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.
(4)Dermatopathology Fellow, Department of Dermatology, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.
(5)Director of Dermatopathology, Department of Pathology and Laboratory 
Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; and.
(6)Professor of Dermatology and Pathology, Department of Dermatology, Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.

Proliferative nodules (PNs) are benign melanocytic proliferations that typically 
develop within congenital melanocytic nevi. These tumors have overlapping 
histological features with melanoma. Ancillary immunohistochemistry and genomic 
sequencing are often used in diagnostically challenging cases. To assess the 
utility of preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) immunoreactivity 
and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) promoter mutation analysis in 
distinguishing PNs from melanoma arising in congenital nevi cases. Twenty-one 
PNs and 2 melanomas arising in congenital nevi were immunohistochemically 
stained with PRAME. Cases with adequate tissue were also assessed for TERT 
promoter mutations through sequencing studies. The positivity rates in the PN 
cases were compared with those of the melanomas. Two of 21 PN cases were 
diffusely positive for PRAME (≥75% of the tumor cells positive). Two of 2 
melanomas arising in congenital nevus cases were also diffusely PRAME positive. 
The difference was statistically significant using a Fisher exact test. None of 
the tumors harbored TERT promoter mutations. PRAME immunohistochemical marker 
may have diagnostic value in distinguishing diagnostically challenging PNs from 
melanoma, but diffuse expression is not specific for melanoma.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002357
PMID: 37338065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Mol Oncol. 2023 Dec;17(12):2603-2617. doi: 10.1002/1878-0261.13474. Epub
2023  Jun 27.

Expression of cancer-testis antigens in the immune microenvironment of non-small 
cell lung cancer.

Hikmet F(1), Rassy M(1), Backman M(1), Méar L(1), Mattsson JSM(1), Djureinovic 
D(1)(2), Botling J(1), Brunnström H(3), Micke P(1), Lindskog C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Rudbeck Laboratory, Uppsala 
University, Sweden.
(2)Department of Medicine (Medical Oncology), Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Division of Pathology, Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Lund University, 
Sweden.

The antigenic repertoire of tumors is critical for successful anti-cancer immune 
response and the efficacy of immunotherapy. Cancer-testis antigens (CTAs) are 
targets of humoral and cellular immune reactions. We aimed to characterize CTA 
expression in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in the context of the immune 
microenvironment. Of 90 CTAs validated by RNA sequencing, eight CTAs (DPEP3, 
EZHIP, MAGEA4, MAGEB2, MAGEC2, PAGE1, PRAME, and TKTL1) were selected for 
immunohistochemical profiling in cancer tissues from 328 NSCLC patients. CTA 
expression was compared with immune cell densities in the tumor environment and 
with genomic, transcriptomic, and clinical data. Most NSCLC cases (79%) 
expressed at least one of the analyzed CTAs, and CTA protein expression 
correlated generally with RNA expression. CTA profiles were associated with 
immune profiles: high MAGEA4 expression was related to M2 macrophages (CD163) 
and regulatory T cells (FOXP3), low MAGEA4 was associated with T cells (CD3), 
and high EZHIP was associated with plasma cell infiltration (adj. P-value 
< 0.05). None of the CTAs correlated with clinical outcomes. The current study 
provides a comprehensive evaluation of CTAs and suggests that their association 
with immune cells may indicate in situ immunogenic effects. The findings support 
the rationale to harness CTAs as targets for immunotherapy.

© 2023 The Authors. Molecular Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on 
behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.

DOI: 10.1002/1878-0261.13474
PMCID: PMC10701773
PMID: 37341056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


526. J Clin Aesthet Dermatol. 2023 Jun;16(6):44-45.

Genomic Evaluation of Clinically Ambiguous Pigmented Lesions.

Ruiz J(1), Hyde M(2), Perry A(2), Brouha B(2).

Author information:
(1)Mr. Ruiz is with the University of California San Diego School of Medicine in 
San Diego, California.
(2)Drs. Hyde and Perry are with DermTech in La Jolla, California.

The clinical evaluation of pigmented lesions represents a 'high-stakes' scenario 
as a missed melanoma can be fatal. Traditional clinical assessment visually 
sorts pigmented lesions into those that merit a biopsy and those that do not. In 
our practice there exists a group of lesions judged to not merit biopsy where 
melanoma, while very unlikely, cannot be excluded with absolute certainty. These 
ambiguous pigmented lesions (APLs) were often photographed and followed for 
clinical evolution. This article evaluates the presence of APLs and describes 
the use of non-invasive genomic testing to sort them. An informal survey using 
pictures of 10 APLs found that 6 of 8 dermatology providers were unable to 
identify which were melanomas. Next, our single practice chart review of 1,254 
APLs evaluated by non-invasive genomic testing revealed 35 melanomas. All 1,254 
were lesions that fell below our biopsy threshold. Non-invasive genomic testing 
can improve biopsy decisions particularly in clinically indeterminate pigmented 
lesions.

Copyright © 2023. Matrix Medical Communications. All rights reserved.

PMCID: PMC10286879
PMID: 37361365

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURES: Funding was provided in part by 
DermTech.


527. BMC Pulm Med. 2023 Jul 3;23(1):240. doi: 10.1186/s12890-023-02482-9.

Clinicopathological characteristics of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) 
patients with c-MET exon 14 skipping mutation, MET overexpression and 
amplification.

Ding C(#)(1), Qiu Y(#)(2), Zhang J(1), Wei W(1), Gao H(1), Yuan Y(1), Wang X(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Shaanxi Cancer Hospital, 309 Yanta West Road, Xi'an, 
Shaanxi, 710000, China.
(2)Graduate School, China Pharmaceutical University, 639 Longmian Avenue, 
Jiangning District, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 211122, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Shaanxi Cancer Hospital, 309 Yanta West Road, Xi'an, 
Shaanxi, 710000, China. sfsafjga7953@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

PURPOSE: MET exon 14 skipping is one of the rare mutations in non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC), involving its pathogenesis and progression. The 
performances of several MET inhibitors in clinical trials have been validated 
based on NGS, immunohistochemistry (IHC), and gene copy number assessments. 
Thus, a detailed understanding of the relationship between these markers and 
prognosis is required.
METHODS: This study has recruited patients (n = 17) with MET exon 14 skipping 
mutation and initially screened genes (n = 10) by polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) from 257 specimens of NSCLC, including small biopsies and surgical 
resection. Further, the IHC analysis detected MET overexpression and recorded 
the score using the MetMAb trial (rial ( recruited patients (n = 17) with MET 
exstainings). Finally, the fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) resulted in 
the MET amplification with a MET copy number initially screened genes (n = 10) 
by p.
RESULTS: PCR results indicated strong MET staining ( 3+) in more than 50% of 
tumor cells. Among the recruited 17 cases of MET exon 14 skipping, 9 cases 
presented MET amplification, and 10 cases with MET overexpression. These 
attributes were not correlated to the clinicopathological characteristics and 
overall survival. In addition, 4 cases showed gene amplification, and 3 cases 
presented polyploidy condition. The correlation analysis showed a significant 
relationship between MET amplification and MET overexpression (Pearson's 
r2 = 0.4657, P < 0.005).
CONCLUSION: Together, these findings indicated a significant correlation between 
MET overexpression and MET amplification in NSCLC patients but no correlation to 
prognosis.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12890-023-02482-9
PMCID: PMC10318750
PMID: 37400762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


528. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Oct;50(10):903-912. doi: 10.1111/cup.14495. Epub 2023
Jul  10.

PRAME expression in cutaneous melanoma does not correlate with disease-specific 
survival.

Parra O(1)(2), Ma W(1)(2), Li Z(3), Coffing BN(4), Linos K(5), LeBlanc RE(1)(2), 
Momtahen S(1)(2), Sriharan A(1)(2), Cloutier JM(1)(2), Wells WA(1)(2), Yan 
S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical 
Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire, USA.
(2)Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, New Hampshire, USA.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, SABER, School of Public Health, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(4)Metropolitan Pathologists, Lakewood, Colorado, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, USA.

BACKGROUND: Immunohistochemistry-based protein biomarkers can provide useful 
prognostic information in cutaneous melanoma. The independent prognostic value 
of Ki-67 has been studied with variable results. PReferentially expressed 
Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) immunohistochemistry is a useful new ancillary tool 
for distinguishing cutaneous nevi from melanoma; however, its prognostic value 
has not been well studied. We evaluated PRAME as a prognostic marker in 
cutaneous melanoma, compared to Ki-67.
METHODS: We analyzed the immunohistochemical expression of PRAME and Ki-67 in 
165 melanocytic lesions, including 92 primary melanomas, 19 metastatic 
melanomas, and 54 melanocytic nevi using tissue microarrays. PRAME 
immunostaining was scored based on the percentage of positive nuclei: 0 <1%, 1+ 
1%-25%, 2+ 26%-50%, 3+ 51%-75%, and 4+ >75%. The percentage of Ki-67-positive 
tumor nuclei was used to calculate the proliferation index.
RESULTS: PRAME and Ki-67 both showed significantly increased expression in 
melanomas compared to nevi (p < 0.0001 and p < 0.001, respectively). There was 
no significant difference in PRAME expression in primary versus metastatic 
melanomas. By contrast, the Ki-67 proliferation index was higher in metastatic 
melanoma than in primary melanoma (p = 0.013). Increased Ki-67 index correlated 
with ulceration (p < 0.001), increased Breslow depth (p = 0.001), and higher 
mitotic rate (p < 0.0001), whereas increased PRAME expression correlated with 
higher mitotic rate (p = 0.047) and Ki-67 index (p = 0.007). Increased Ki-67 
index correlated with worse disease-specific survival in patients with primary 
melanoma (p < 0.001), but PRAME expression did not show prognostic significance 
in disease-specific survival (p = 0.63). In a multivariable analysis of patients 
with primary melanoma, tumor Breslow depth, ulceration, mitotic rate, and Ki-67 
index were each independent predictors of disease-specific survival (p = 0.006, 
0.02, 0.001, and 0.04, respectively); however, PRAME expression was not 
predictive of disease-specific survival (p = 0.64).
CONCLUSION: Ki-67 is an independent prognostic marker; although increased PRAME 
expression correlates with the Ki-67 proliferation index and mitotic rate, PRAME 
is not an independent prognostic marker for cutaneous melanoma. PRAME and Ki-67 
are useful ancillary tools for distinguishing benign from malignant melanocytic 
lesions.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14495
PMID: 37430414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Altern Ther Health Med. 2023 Oct;29(7):148-154.

Target and Mechanism of the Xihuang Pill Based on Network Pharmacology for Lung 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma.

Tu H, Li J, Xu W, Wang Z, Wang L.

CONTEXT: Lung squamous cell carcinoma (LUSC) accounts for 30% of non-small-cell 
lung cancers (NSCLC), and an effective pharmacological treatment for LUSC isn't 
yet available. The Xihuang Pill is a potent Chinese medicinal preparation widely 
prescribed for the management of LUSC.
OBJECTIVE: The study intended to use the network-pharmacology method to 
ascertain the effective active ingredients, targets of action, and 
cellular-signal transduction involved in the prevention and treatment of LUSC 
when using the Xihuang Pill and to identify the mechanism of action of the pills 
against LUSC, to provide a more adequate scientific basis for subsequent 
studies.
DESIGN: The research team performed a genetic study.
SETTING: The study took place at Shanghai.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The research team: (1) created the feature sets, for both the 
LUSC and normal features, using the Cancer Genome Atlas' (TCGA's) LUSC dataset; 
(2) performed a weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) of the 
differentially expressed genes (DEGs) using the R package WGCNA; (3) searched 
for the chemical components of the Xihuang Pill using the Traditional Chinese 
Medicine Systematic Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform (TCMSP) and the 
Herb Group Identification Platform, and (4) selected the novel the Matthews 
correlation coefficient (MCC) algorithm to screen the hub genes.
RESULTS: The study found 8713 DEGs between the LUSC and normal groups. The top 
ten, important, downregulated genes included: (1) advanced glycosylation end 
product (AGER), (2) chitinase, acidic pseudogene 2 (CHIAP2), (3) CD300 molecule 
like family member G (CD300LG), (4) solute carrier family 6 member 4 (SLC6A4), 
(5) carboxypeptidase B2 (CPB2), (6) claudin 18 (CLDN18), (7) 
gamma-glutamyltransferase light chain 1 (GGTLC1), (8) gastrokine 2 (GKN2), (9) 
progastricsin (PGC), and (10) pulmonary surfactant-associated protein C (SFTPC). 
The top 10 upregulated genes included: (1) cancer susceptibility 9 (CASC9), (2) 
homeobox C13 (HOXC13), (3) keratin 6a (KRT6A), (4) desmoglein 3 (DSG3), (5) 
keratin 16 (KRT16), (6) forkhead box E1 (FOXE1), (7) preferentially expressed 
antigen in melanoma (PRAME), (8) calmodulin-like protein 3 (CALML3), (9) KRT68, 
and (10) aldo-keto reductase family 1 member B10 (AKR1B10). The study found 41 
active ingredients and 843 targets for the Xihuang Pill. The PPI network 
included 10 hub genes, including cyclin dependent kinase 1 (CDK1), cyclin B1 
(CCNB1), cyclin B2 (CCNB2), polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1), aurora kinase B (AURKB), 
baculoviral IAP repeat containing 5 (BIRC5), cyclin A2 (CCNA2), aurora kinase A 
(AURKA), centrosome-associated protein E (CENPE), and threonine tyrosine kinase 
(TTK), which were the principal target genes at the core of the gene-pathway 
network for the drug compound to central-target relationship. The enrichment 
analyses used the overlapping genes and the 10 hub genes and found 390 
biological processes (BPs), 25 molecular functions (MFs), 43 cellular components 
(CCs), and 10 Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways. The main 
enrichment occurred in the regulation of protein serine-threonine kinase 
activity, mitotic nuclear division, progesterone-mediated oocyte maturation, and 
the cell cycle.
CONCLUSIONS: The study found the targets and relevant pathways of the hub genes 
of Xihuang Pill using biological analysis and molecular docking and demonstrated 
the interactions of critical chemical compounds with the hub's targeted genes 
were. More research is necessary to further determine whether the Xihuang Pill 
can improve LUSC patients' survival rate by regulation of those genes.

PMID: 37442189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2023 Oct 1;675:46-53. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.07.013. Epub 2023 Jul 10.

MAGE-B4, a binding partner of PRAMEF12, is dispensable for spermatogenesis and 
male fertility in mice.

Li N(1), Yu J(1), Zhou M(1), Qiu F(1), Wang X(1), Wang Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Cell and Developmental Biology, 
School of Life Sciences, Shandong University, Qingdao, 266237, PR China.
(2)Shandong Provincial Key Laboratory of Animal Cell and Developmental Biology, 
School of Life Sciences, Shandong University, Qingdao, 266237, PR China. 
Electronic address: zhengpin.wang@sdu.edu.cn.

Melanoma antigen (MAGE)-B4 belongs to the MAGE-B family genes, which are located 
on the X chromosome. The MAGE-B family genes are classified as cancer-testis 
antigens, as they are primarily expressed in the testis and are aberrantly 
expressed in most cancers. Although a no-stop mutation in MAGE-B4 causes rare 
X-linked azoospermia and oligozoospermia phenotype in humans, the specific 
function of MAGE-B4 on spermatogenesis in mice remains unclear. In this study, 
we identified MAGE-B4 as a binding partner of PRAME family member 12, which 
plays an important role in the maintenance of mouse spermatogenic lineage in 
juvenile testes. Additionally, we found that Mage-b4 transcripts were restricted 
to the testis and that Mage-b4 was specifically expressed in spermatogonia. To 
explore the function of MAGE-B4 in spermatogenesis, we generated a Mage-b4 
knockout (KO) mouse model using CRISPR/Cas9 technology. However, we found that 
Mage-b4 KO males displayed normal testicular morphology and fertility. Further 
histological analysis revealed that all stages of spermatogenic cells were 
present in the seminiferous tubules of the Mage-b4 KO mice. Altogether, our data 
suggest that Mage-b4 is dispensable for mouse spermatogenesis and male 
fertility.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2023.07.013
PMID: 37451217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding the publication of this 
research.


531. Am J Dermatopathol. 2023 Aug 1;45(8):549-556. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002488.  Epub 2023 Jul 11.

PRAME and LEF1 in Combined Deep Penetrating Nevus and Combined Blue Nevus: 
Utility and Pitfalls.

Vanderbeck K(1), Rothrock AT(1), Cho WC(1), Nagarajan P(1), Aung PP(1), Hudgens 
C(2), Bassett RL(3), Ivan D(1), Prieto VG(1)(4), Curry JL(1)(2), Torres-Cabala 
CA(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Department of Pathology.
(2)Translational Molecular Pathology.
(3)Biostatistics, and.
(4)Dermatology, The University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX.

Deep penetrating nevi (DPN), particularly those showing combined features, or 
combined deep penetrating nevi (CDPN), may show histopathological resemblance to 
blue nevus (BN) and melanoma. Preferentially Expressed Antigen in MElanoma 
(PRAME) is a marker that helps distinguish melanoma from benign melanocytic 
lesions. Lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 (LEF1) has been proposed to be used 
in conjunction with β-catenin for diagnosis of DPN. The immunohistochemical 
expression of PRAME and LEF1 was evaluated in 10 DPN (including 6 CDPN and 2 
DPN-like proliferations with atypical features), 16 BN (including combined and 
cellular BN), and 2 melanomas with features of DPN or BN. PRAME was negative in 
most DPN (n = 10/10, n = 9/10, one case with discrepancy between readers) and 
all BN (n = 16/16), while the 2 melanomas included were positive (n = 2/2). All 
DPN were positive for LEF1 (n = 9/9) while only a subset of BN were positive (n 
= 6/16, P = 0.0028; n = 5/16, P = 0.001, per both readers). LEF1 seemed to be 
easier to interpret than β-catenin because of its nuclear pattern of expression. 
The expression of LEF1 in the regular nevus component of combined BN presents a 
potential pitfall in practice because it may lead to misinterpretation of LEF1 
as positive in the BN component of the lesion. However, a subset (approximately 
one-third) of combined BN seemed to show true LEF1 expression. Taking into 
account pitfalls in interpretation, the combinatorial panel of PRAME and LEF1, 
in addition to conventional histopathological features, may be useful to 
distinguish CDPN from combined BN and other benign and malignant mimics.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002488
PMCID: PMC10534018
PMID: 37462205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


532. Virchows Arch. 2023 Aug;483(2):145-156. doi: 10.1007/s00428-023-03606-6.
Epub  2023 Jul 21.

PRAME immunohistochemistry in soft tissue tumors and mimics: a study of 350 
cases highlighting its imperfect specificity but potentially useful diagnostic 
applications.

Cammareri C(1)(2), Beltzung F(3), Michal M(4)(5), Vanhersecke L(2), Coindre 
JM(1)(2), Velasco V(2), Le Loarer F(1)(2)(6), Vergier B(1)(3), Perret R(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)University of Bordeaux, Talence, France.
(2)Department of Biopathology, Institut Bergonié, Bordeaux, France.
(3)Department of Pathology, Bordeaux University Hospital, UMR 1312 Inserm, 
Bordeaux, France.
(4)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine in Plzen, Charles University, 
Pilsen, Czech Republic.
(5)Bioptical Laboratory Ltd., Plzen, Czech Republic.
(6)INSERM U1218, ACTION, Institut Bergonié, Bordeaux, France.
(7)Department of Biopathology, Institut Bergonié, Bordeaux, France. 
r.perret@bordeaux.unicancer.fr.
(8)INSERM U1218, ACTION, Institut Bergonié, Bordeaux, France. 
r.perret@bordeaux.unicancer.fr.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) immunohistochemistry is 
currently used in pathology for the assessment of melanocytic neoplasms; 
however, knowledge of its expression patterns in soft tissue tumors is limited. 
PRAME immunohistochemistry (clone QR005) was assessed on whole tissue sections 
of 350 soft-tissue tumors and mimics (> 50 histotypes). PRAME immunoreactivity 
was evaluated as follows: 0 "negative" (0% positive cells); 1+ (1-25% positive 
cells); 2+ (26-50% positive cells); 3+ (51-75% positive cells), and 4+ "diffuse" 
(> 75% positive cells). PRAME was expressed in 111 lesions (0 benign, 6 
intermediate malignancy, and 105 malignant), including fibrosarcomatous 
dermatofibrosarcoma protuberans (2/4, 0 diffuse), NTRK-rearranged spindle cell 
neoplasm (2/4, 0 diffuse), atypical fibroxanthoma (1/7, 0 diffuse), Kaposi 
sarcoma (1/5, 0 diffuse), myxoid liposarcoma (11/11, 9 diffuse), synovial 
sarcoma (11/11, 6 diffuse), intimal sarcoma (7/7, 5 diffuse), biphenotypic 
sinonasal sarcoma (3/3, 1 diffuse), angiosarcoma (10/15, 6 diffuse), malignant 
peripheral nerve sheath tumor (9/12, 4 diffuse), pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma 
(2/3, 2 diffuse), alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (2/6, 0 diffuse), embryonal 
rhabdomyosarcoma (7/7, 4 diffuse), undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma (2/12, 1 
diffuse), leiomyosarcoma (2/15, 1 diffuse), clear cell sarcoma of soft tissue 
(1/10, 0 diffuse), low-grade fibromyxoid sarcoma (1/5, 0 diffuse), Ewing sarcoma 
(2/10, 1 diffuse), CIC-rearranged sarcoma (8/8, 4 diffuse), BCOR-sarcoma (2/5, 1 
diffuse), melanoma (20/20, 14 diffuse), and thoracic SMARCA4-deficient 
undifferentiated tumor (5/5, all diffuse). All tested cases of spindle cell 
lipoma, dedifferentiated/pleomorphic liposarcoma, dermatofibrosarcoma 
protuberans, solitary fibrous tumor, inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor, 
myxoinflammatory fibroblastic sarcoma, nodular fasciitis, myxofibrosarcoma, 
epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, atypical vascular lesion, hemangioma, 
lymphangioma, vascular malformation, papillary endothelial hyperplasia, GIST, 
gastrointestinal clear-cell sarcoma, malignant melanotic nerve sheath tumor, 
neurofibroma, schwannoma, granular cell tumor, alveolar soft part sarcoma, 
epithelioid sarcoma, extraskeletal myxoid chondrosarcoma, myoepithelioma, 
ossifying fibromyxoid tumor, angiomatoid fibrous histiocytoma, PEComa, 
dermatofibroma, pleomorphic dermal sarcoma, and chordoma were negative. PRAME 
shows imperfect specificity in soft-tissue pathology but may serve as a 
diagnostic adjunct in selected differential diagnoses that show contrasting 
expression patterns.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-023-03606-6
PMID: 37477762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Br J Haematol. 2023 Sep;202(6):1127-1136. doi: 10.1111/bjh.18984. Epub 2023
Jul  22.

Immune modulation in chronic myeloid leukaemia patients treated with nilotinib 
and interferon-alpha.

Irani YD(1)(2), Hughes A(1), Kok CH(1)(2), Clarson J(1), Yeung DT(1)(2)(3)(4), 
Ross DM(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6), Branford S(2)(5)(7), Hughes TP(1)(2)(3)(4), Yong 
ASM(1)(2)(4)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Precision Cancer Medicine Theme, South Australian Health and Medical Research 
Institute (SAHMRI), Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(2)The University of Adelaide, School of Medicine, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia.
(3)Department of Haematology, Royal Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia.
(4)The Australasian Leukaemia and Lymphoma Group, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.
(5)Department of Genetics and Molecular Pathology, Centre for Cancer Biology, SA 
Pathology, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(6)Department of Haematology, Flinders University and Medical Centre, Adelaide, 
South Australia, Australia.
(7)Clinical and Health Sciences, University of South Australia, Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia.
(8)Department of Haematology, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.
(9)The University of Western Australia Medical School, Perth, Western Australia, 
Australia.

The addition of interferon to tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), to improve deep 
molecular response (DMR) and potentially treatment-free remission (TFR) rates in 
chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukaemia (CP-CML) patients is under active 
investigation. However, the immunobiology of this combination is poorly 
understood. We performed a comprehensive longitudinal assessment of 
immunological changes in CML patients treated with nilotinib and 
interferon-alpha (IFN-α) within the ALLG CML11 trial (n = 12) or nilotinib alone 
(n = 17). We demonstrate that nilotinib+IFN transiently reduced absolute counts 
of natural killer (NK) cells, compared with nilotinib alone. Furthermore, CD16+ 
-cytolytic and CD57+ CD62L- -mature NK cells were transiently reduced during IFN 
therapy, without affecting NK-cell function. IFN transiently increased cytotoxic 
T-lymphocyte (CTL) responses to leukaemia-associated antigens (LAAs) 
proteinase-3, BMI-1 and PRAME; and had no effect on regulatory T cells, or 
myeloid-derived suppressor cells. Patients on nilotinib+IFN who achieved MR4.5 
by 12 months had a significantly higher proportion of NK cells expressing NKp46, 
NKp30 and NKG2D compared with patients not achieving this milestone. This 
difference was not observed in the nilotinib-alone group. The addition of IFN to 
nilotinib drives an increase in NK-activating receptors, CTLs responding to LAAs 
and results in transient immune modulation, which may influence earlier DMR, and 
its effect on long-term outcomes warrants further investigation.

© 2023 British Society for Haematology and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.18984
PMID: 37482935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Leukemia. 2023 Sep;37(9):1842-1849. doi: 10.1038/s41375-023-01980-3. Epub
2023  Jul 28.

WT1 and PRAME RNA-loaded dendritic cell vaccine as maintenance therapy in de 
novo AML after intensive induction chemotherapy.

Fløisand Y(1), Remberger M(2)(3), Bigalke I(4), Josefsen D(4), Vålerhaugen H(5), 
Inderberg EM(4), Olaussen RW(4), Gjertsen BT(6), Goedkoop R(7), Geiger C(7), 
Prinz PU(7), Schnorfeil FM(7)(8), Pinkernell K(7)(9), Schendel DJ(7), Kvalheim 
G(4).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Cancer Cell Reprogramming, Institute of Clinical Medicine, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. yfl70@me.com.
(2)Department of Hematology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(3)Clinical Research and Development Unit, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, 
Sweden.
(4)Department of Cellular Therapy, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(5)Department of Pathology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
(6)Department of Clinical Science, University of Bergen; Department of Medicine, 
Hematology Section, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway.
(7)Medigene Immunotherapies GmbH and Medigene AG, Martinsried, Germany.
(8)Bavarian Nordic GmbH, Martinsried, Germany.
(9)Dr. Falk Pharma, Freiburg, Germany.

Intensive induction chemotherapy achieves complete remissions (CR) in >60% of 
patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) but overall survival (OS) is poor for 
relapsing patients not eligible for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation (allo-HSCT). Oral azacytidine may be used as maintenance 
treatment in AML in first remission, but can be associated with substantial side 
effects, and less toxic strategies should be explored. Twenty AML patients in 
first CR (CR1) ineligible for allo-HSCT were treated with FDC101, an autologous 
RNA-loaded mature dendritic cell (mDC) vaccine expressing two 
leukemia-associated antigens (LAAs). Each dose consisted of 2.5-5 × 106 mDCs per 
antigen, given weekly until week 4, at week 6, and then monthly, during the 
2-year study period. Patients were followed for safety and long-term survival. 
Treatment was well tolerated, with mild and transient injection site reactions. 
Eleven of 20 patients (55%) remained in CR, while 4 of 6 relapsing patients 
achieved CR2 after salvage therapy and underwent allo-HSCT. OS at five years was 
75% (95% CI: 50-89), with 70% of patients ≥60 years of age being long-term 
survivors. Maintenance therapy with this DC vaccine was well tolerated in AML 
patients in CR1 and was accompanied by encouraging 5-year long-term survival.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41375-023-01980-3
PMID: 37507426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Am J Cancer Res. 2023 Jul 15;13(7):2861-2877. eCollection 2023.

Novel gene signature for predicting biochemical recurrence-free survival of 
prostate cancer and PRAME modulates prostate cancer progression.

Kadeerhan G(1), Xue B(1)(2), Wu X(1), Hu X(1)(2), Tian J(1), Wang D(1).

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Center/National Clinical Research Center for Cancer/Cancer 
Hospital & Shenzhen Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking 
Union Medical College Shenzhen 518116, China.
(2)Shanxi Medical University Shanxi 030012, China.

Biochemical recurrence (BCR) is considered as an early sign of prostate cancer 
(PCa) progression after initial treatment, such as radical prostatectomy and 
radiotherapy; hence, it is important to stratify patients at risk of BCR. In 
this study, we established a robust 8-gene signature (APOF, Clorf64, RPE65, 
SEMG1, ARHGDIG, COMP, MKI67 and PRAME) based on the PCa transcriptome profiles 
in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) for predicting BCR-free survival of PCa, which 
was further validated in the MSK-IMPACT Clinical Sequencing Cohort (MSKCC) PCa 
cohort. Moreover, we found that one risk-related gene (PRAME) was upregulated in 
tumor samples, particularly in high-risk group was well as in patients 
metastatic tumor and was correlated with chemotherapeutic drug response. In 
vitro experiments showed that knocking down PRAME reduced the proliferation, 
migration, and invasion of PCa cells. Therefore, our study established a new 
8-gene signature that could accurately predict the BCR risk of PCa. Inhibition 
of PRAME attenuated the proliferation, invasion, and migration of PCa cells. 
These findings provide a novel tool for stratifying high-risk PCa patient and 
shed light on the mechanism of PCa progression.

AJCR Copyright © 2023.

PMCID: PMC10408486
PMID: 37559989

Conflict of interest statement: None.


536. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Nov;50(11):1001-1005. doi: 10.1111/cup.14505. Epub 2023
Aug  11.

PRAME-negativity in sclerosing nevi with pseudomelanomatous features supports 
classification as an indolent lesion.

Tang H(1), McNiff JM(1)(2), Glusac EJ(1)(2), Ko C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, 
USA.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Some dysplastic nevi, termed sclerosing nevi with pseudomelanomatous 
features, may have florid fibroplasia associated with features that cause 
melanoma to be a prominent consideration in the differential diagnosis. PRAME 
(PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) immunohistochemistry (IHC) has 
been shown to be a useful marker in the distinction of melanoma and nevus. PRAME 
expression in such sclerosing nevi with pseudomelanomatous features has not been 
evaluated to our knowledge.
METHODS: Thirty-two sclerosing nevi with pseudomelanomatous features were 
stained with PRAME IHC, with positive labeling defined as staining of >75% of 
the cytomorphologically atypical lesional cells.
RESULTS: All 32 cases had variable cytologic atypia, bridging of elongated rete, 
fibroplasia, and a vertically oriented trizonal appearance. Some cases (23/32) 
had centrally located flattening of the rete ridge pattern bilaterally flanked 
by fibroplasia associated with elongated rete. PRAME labeling was negative (<1% 
labeling) in 28/32 cases. Four cases, also interpreted as having negative 
labeling with PRAME, showed only weak nuclear positivity of <50% of the 
melanocytes within the pseudomelanomatous foci. p16 staining was positive in 
28/28 lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: Rare sclerosing nevi with pseudomelanomatous features (4/32; ~13%) 
had weak PRAME labeling of 25%-50% of atypical foci. Twenty-eight of 32 lesions 
had virtually no labeling with PRAME. PRAME results support classifying 
sclerosing nevi with pseudomelanomatous features as indolent lesions.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14505
PMID: 37565491


537. Arch Dermatol Res. 2023 Dec;315(10):2769-2772. doi:
10.1007/s00403-023-02711-5.  Epub 2023 Aug 21.

The use of immunohistochemical staining in Mohs micrographic surgery for 
melanoma: a systematic review.

Xia J(1), Patel H(2), Guo L(3), Hsu C(3), Revankar R(4), Torbeck R(5).

Author information:
(1)Renaissance School of Medicine at Stony Brook University, 100 Nicolls Rd., 
Stony Brook, NY, 11794, USA. joyce.xia@stonybrookmedicine.edu.
(2)Sidney Kimmel Medical College at Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, 
PA, USA.
(3)Chicago Medical School at Rosalind Franklin University, North Chicago, IL, 
USA.
(4)The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Dermatology Associates, Portland, ME, USA.

DOI: 10.1007/s00403-023-02711-5
PMID: 37603089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Virchows Arch. 2023 Oct;483(4):509-516. doi: 10.1007/s00428-023-03629-z.
Epub  2023 Aug 23.

Immunohistochemical expression of PRAME in 485 cases of epithelial tubo-ovarian 
tumors.

Šafanda A(1), Kendall Bártů M(1), Michálková R(1), Stružinská I(1), Drozenová 
J(2), Fabián P(3), Hausnerová J(4), Laco J(5), Matěj R(1)(2)(6), Škapa P(7), 
Švajdler M(8), Špůrková Z(9), Méhes G(10), Dundr P(1), Němejcová K(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and 
General University Hospital in Prague, Studničkova 2, 12800, Prague 2, Czech 
Republic.
(2)Department of Pathology, 3rd Faculty of Medicine, Charles University, 
University Hospital Kralovske Vinohrady, 10034, Prague, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Oncological Pathology, Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute, Brno, 
Czech Republic.
(4)Department of Pathology, University Hospital Brno and Medical Faculty, 
Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic.
(5)The Fingerland Department of Pathology, Charles University Faculty of 
Medicine in Hradec Králové and University Hospital Hradec Králové, Hradec 
Králové, Czech Republic.
(6)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Third Faculty of Medicine, 
Charles University, Thomayer University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(7)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Second Faculty of Medicine, 
Charles University and Motol University Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(8)Šikl's Department of Pathology, The Faculty of Medicine and Faculty Hospital 
in Pilsen, Charles University, Pilsen, Czech Republic.
(9)Department of Pathology, Bulovka Hospital, Prague, Czech Republic.
(10)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Debrecen, 4032, 
Debrecen, Hungary.
(11)Department of Pathology, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University and 
General University Hospital in Prague, Studničkova 2, 12800, Prague 2, Czech 
Republic. Kristyna.Nemejcova@vfn.cz.

Preferentially expressed antigen of melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer/testis antigen 
selectively expressed in somatic tissues and various solid malignant tumors and 
is associated with poor prognostic outcome. Our research aimed to 
comprehensively compare its expression in a large cohort of tubo-ovarian 
epithelial tumors and examine its correlation with our clinico-pathologic data, 
as well as to assess its potential use in diagnostics and therapy.We examined 
485 cases of epithelial tubo-ovarian tumors including 107 clear cell carcinomas 
(CCC), 52 endometroid carcinomas (EC), 103 high grade serous carcinomas (HGSC), 
119 low grade serous carcinomas (LGSC)/micropapillary variant of serous 
borderline tumors (mSBT), and 104 cases of mucinous carcinomas (MC)/mucinous 
borderline tumors (MBT). The immunohistochemical analysis was performed using 
TMAs.The highest levels of expression were seen in EC (60%), HGSC (62%), and CCC 
(56%), while expression in LGSC/mSBT (4%) and MC/MBT (2%) was rare. The 
clinico-pathologic correlations and survival analysis showed no prognostic 
significance.The results of our study showed that PRAME is neither prognostic 
nor a suitable ancillary marker in the differential diagnosis of tubo-ovarian 
epithelial tumors. Nevertheless, knowledge about the PRAME expression may be 
important concerning its potential predictive significance, because targeting 
PRAME as a potential therapeutic option is currently under investigation.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-023-03629-z
PMID: 37610627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2023 Nov;149(16):15003-15011. doi: 
10.1007/s00432-023-05274-0. Epub 2023 Aug 23.

Expression of four cancer-testis antigens in TNBC indicating potential universal 
immunotherapeutic targets.

Xiao J(#)(1), Huang F(#)(2), Li L(#)(3), Zhang L(1), Xie L(4), Liu B(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China.
(2)Department of Oncology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital Clinical College of 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210008, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 210008, China.
(4)Department of Oncology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China. xieli@njglyy.com.
(5)Department of Oncology, Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital, Affiliated Hospital of 
Medical School, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China. baoruiliu@nju.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: Immunotherapy is an attractive treatment for breast cancer. 
Cancer-testis antigens (CTAs) are potential targets for immunotherapy for their 
restricted expression. Here, we investigate the expression of CTAs in breast 
cancer and their value for prognosis. So as to hunt for a potential panel of 
CTAs for universal immunotherapeutic targets.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 137 breast cancer tissue specimens including 51 
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) were assessed for MAGE-A4, MAGEA1, 
NY-ESO-1, KK-LC-1 and PRAME expression by immunohistochemistry. The expression 
of PD-L1 and TILs was also calculated and correlated with the five CTAs. 
Clinical data were collected to evaluate the CTA's value for prognosis. Data 
from the K-M plotter were used as a validation cohort.
RESULTS: The expression of MAGE-A4, NY-ESO-1 and KK-LC-1 in TNBC was 
significantly higher than in non-TNBC (P = 0.012, P = 0.005, P < 0.001 
respectively). 76.47% of TNBC expressed at least one of the five CTAs. Patients 
with positive expression of either MAGE-A4 or PRAME had a significantly extended 
disease-free survival (DFS). Data from the Kaplan-Meier plotter confirm our 
findings.
CONCLUSIONS: MAGE-A4, NY-ESO-1, PRAME and KK-LC-1 are overexpressed in breast 
cancer, especially in TNBC. Positive expression of MAGE-A4 or PARME may be 
associated with prolonged DFS. A panel of CTAs is attractive universal targets 
for immunotherapy.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-023-05274-0
PMCID: PMC10602960
PMID: 37610673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors declare no financial or 
non-financial competing interests.


540. Cell Commun Signal. 2023 Aug 25;21(1):222. doi: 10.1186/s12964-023-01197-y.

Intrinsic disorder in PRAME and its role in uveal melanoma.

Antonietti M(1), Gonzalez DJT(1), Djulbegovic M(1), Dayhoff GW 2nd(2), Uversky 
VN(3), Shields CL(4), Karp CL(5).

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, 900 NW 17th Street, Miami, 
FL, 33136, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, College of Art and Sciences, University of South 
Florida, FL, 33612, Tampa, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine and USF Health Byrd Alzheimer's Research 
Institute, Morsani College of Medicine, University of South Florida, FL, 33612, 
Tampa, USA.
(4)Ocular Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, PA, 
Philadelphia, USA.
(5)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, 900 NW 17th Street, Miami, 
FL, 33136, USA. ckarp@med.miami.edu.

Erratum in
    Cell Commun Signal. 2023 Oct 12;21(1):285.

INTRODUCTION: The PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) protein 
has been shown to be an independent biomarker for increased risk of metastasis 
in Class 1 uveal melanomas (UM). Intrinsically disordered proteins and regions 
of proteins (IDPs/IDPRs) are proteins that do not have a well-defined 
three-dimensional structure and have been linked to neoplastic development. Our 
study aimed to evaluate the presence of intrinsic disorder in PRAME and the role 
these structureless regions have in PRAME( +) Class 1 UM.
METHODS: A bioinformatics study to characterize PRAME's propensity for the 
intrinsic disorder. We first used the AlphaFold tool to qualitatively assess the 
protein structure of PRAME. Then we used the Compositional Profiler and a set of 
per-residue intrinsic disorder predictors to quantify the intrinsic disorder. 
The Database of Disordered Protein Prediction (D2P2) platform, IUPred, FuzDrop, 
fIDPnn, AUCpred, SPOT-Disorder2, and metapredict V2 allowed us to evaluate the 
potential functional disorder of PRAME. Additionally, we used the Search Tool 
for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes (STRING) to analyze PRAME's potential 
interactions with other proteins.
RESULTS: Our structural analysis showed that PRAME contains intrinsically 
disordered protein regions (IDPRs), which are structureless and flexible. We 
found that PRAME is significantly enriched with serine (p-value < 0.05), a 
disorder-promoting amino acid. PRAME was found to have an average disorder score 
of 16.49% (i.e., moderately disordered) across six per-residue intrinsic 
disorder predictors. Our IUPred analysis revealed the presence of 
disorder-to-order transition (DOT) regions in PRAME near the C-terminus of the 
protein (residues 475-509). The D2P2 platform predicted a region from 
approximately 140 and 175 to be highly concentrated with post-translational 
modifications (PTMs). FuzDrop predicted the PTM hot spot of PRAME to be a 
droplet-promoting region and an aggregation hotspot. Finally, our analysis using 
the STRING tool revealed that PRAME has significantly more interactions with 
other proteins than expected for randomly selected proteins of the same size, 
with the ability to interact with 84 different partners (STRING analysis result: 
p-value < 1.0 × 10-16; model confidence: 0.400).
CONCLUSION: Our study revealed that PRAME has IDPRs that are possibly linked to 
its functionality in the context of Class 1 UM. The regions of functionality 
(i.e., DOT regions, PTM sites, droplet-promoting regions, and aggregation 
hotspots) are localized to regions of high levels of disorder. PRAME has a 
complex protein-protein interaction (PPI) network that may be secondary to the 
structureless features of the polypeptide. Our findings contribute to our 
understanding of UM and suggest that IDPRs and DOT regions in PRAME may be 
targeted in developing new therapies for this aggressive cancer. Video Abstract.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12964-023-01197-y
PMCID: PMC10463658
PMID: 37626310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Karp has a pending PCT/US2022/029842 with 
the University of Miami, Dr. Karp and Dr. Shields are on the medical advisory 
board for Interfeen Biologics.541. Pathol Res Pract. 2023 Oct;250:154776. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2023.154776. Epub
2023  Aug 23.

PRAME/MELAN-A double immunostaining as a diagnostic tool for conjunctival 
melanocytic lesions: A South American experience.

Carvajal P(1), Zoroquiain P(2).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Department, School of Medicine, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Chile.
(2)Pathology Department, School of Medicine, Pontificia Universidad Católica de 
Chile, Chile. Electronic address: Zoroquiain@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma) is an antigen 
that is predominantly expressed in human melanomas. In cutaneous melanocytic 
lesions, PRAME expression is associated with malignancy. The objective of this 
study was to evaluate the co-expression of PRAME and Melan A to evaluate their 
diagnostic value in different conjunctival melanocytic lesions (CML).
METHODS: 37 CML (23 nevi, 9 primary acquired melanosis (PAM), and 5 conjunctival 
melanomas) were evaluated by immunohistochemistry for PRAME and Melan-A. The 
percentage of melanocytic cells co-expressing PRAME and Melan-A was 
qualitatively evaluated as follows: negative, 0%; 1 + , 1-25%; 2 + , 26-50%; 
3 + , 51-75% and 4 + , ≥ 76%.
RESULTS: Of the invasive melanoma cases, 80% showed a 4 + pattern of marking, 
whereas 20% showed a 3 + pattern. 11% of the PAMs showed a 4 + pattern and 88.9% 
showed a 1 + pattern. All the nevi showed a 1 + pattern. The sensitivity and 
specificity of PRAME 4 + for differentiating high-grade CML from the benign and 
low-grade grouped CML are 93% and 100%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: PRAME/MELAN-A double immunostain is particularly useful to 
differentiate benign from malignant conjunctival melanocytic lesions.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2023.154776
PMID: 37696245

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


542. Cell Rep. 2023 Sep 26;42(9):113132. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2023.113132. Epub
2023  Sep 13.

Multi-omics comparison of malignant and normal uveal melanocytes reveals 
molecular features of uveal melanoma.

Gentien D(1), Saberi-Ansari E(2), Servant N(3), Jolly A(4), de la Grange P(4), 
Némati F(5), Liot G(6), Saule S(7), Teissandier A(8), Bourc'his D(8), Girard 
E(3), Wong J(9), Masliah-Planchon J(9), Narmanli E(2), Liu Y(10), Torun E(8), 
Goulancourt R(4), Rodrigues M(11), Gaudé LV(12), Reyes C(12), Bazire M(12), 
Chenegros T(12), Henry E(12), Rapinat A(12), Bohec M(13), Baulande S(13), 
M'kacher R(14), Jeandidier E(15), Nicolas A(16), Ciriello G(10), Margueron R(8), 
Decaudin D(5), Cassoux N(17), Piperno-Neumann S(18), Stern MH(19), Gibcus 
JH(20), Dekker J(21), Heard E(22), Roman-Roman S(23), Waterfall JJ(24).

Author information:
(1)Translational Research Department, Research Center, Institut Curie, Paris 
Sciences et Lettres (PSL) Research University, 75005 Paris, France; Genomics 
Platform, Research Center, Institut Curie, Paris Sciences et Lettres (PSL) 
Research University, 75005 Paris, France. Electronic address: dgentien@curie.fr.
(2)Translational Research Department, Research Center, Institut Curie, Paris 
Sciences et Lettres (PSL) Research University, 75005 Paris, France; INSERM U830, 
Research Center, Institut Curie, PSL Research University, 75005 Paris, France.
(3)INSERM U900, Mines ParisTech, 75248 Paris, France.
(4)GenoSplice, Paris, France.
(5)Translational Research Department, Research Center, Institut Curie, Paris 
Sciences et Lettres (PSL) Research University, 75005 Paris, France; Laboratory 
of Preclinical Investigation, Translational Research Department, Institut Curie, 
PSL Research University, 75248 Paris, France.
(6)Institut Curie, PSL Research University, CNRS, INSERM, UMR3347, U1021, Orsay, 
France.
(7)Institut Curie, PSL Research University, CNRS, INSERM, UMR3347, U1021, Orsay, 
France; Université Paris-Saclay Centre National de La Recherche Scientifique, 
UMR 3347, Unité 1021, Orsay, France.
(8)Institut Curie, PSL Research University, Sorbonne University, INSERM U934, 
CNRS UMR 3215, 75005 Paris, France.
(9)Department of Diagnostic and Theranostic Molecular Pathology, Unit of Somatic 
Genetic, Hospital, Institut Curie, Paris, France.
(10)Department of Computational Biology, University of Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland; Swiss Cancer Center Leman, Lausanne, Switzerland; Swiss Institute 
of Bioinformatics, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(11)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Curie, PSL Research University, 
75005 Paris, France; INSERM U830, DNA Repair and Uveal Melanoma (D.R.U.M.), 
Equipe Labellisée par la Ligue Nationale Contre le Cancer, Department of 
Genetics, Institut Curie, PSL Research University, 75005 Paris, France.
(12)Translational Research Department, Research Center, Institut Curie, Paris 
Sciences et Lettres (PSL) Research University, 75005 Paris, France; Genomics 
Platform, Research Center, Institut Curie, Paris Sciences et Lettres (PSL) 
Research University, 75005 Paris, France.
(13)Institut Curie Genomics of Excellence (ICGex) Platform, Institut Curie 
Research Center, PSL Research University, Paris, France.
(14)Cell Environment, DNA Damage R&D, 75020 Paris, France.
(15)Laboratoire de Génétique, Groupe Hospitalier de la Région de Mulhouse 
Sud-Alsace, Mulhouse, France.
(16)Pathex, Institut Curie, PSL Research University, Paris, France.
(17)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Curie, PSL Research University, 
75005 Paris, France; Department of Ocular Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Institut Curie, Université de Paris Descartes, 75005 Paris, France.
(18)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Curie, PSL Research University, 
75005 Paris, France.
(19)INSERM U830, DNA Repair and Uveal Melanoma (D.R.U.M.), Equipe Labellisée par 
la Ligue Nationale Contre le Cancer, Department of Genetics, Institut Curie, PSL 
Research University, 75005 Paris, France.
(20)Department of Systems Biology, University of Massachusetts Chan Medical 
School, Worcester, MA 01605, USA.
(21)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Department of Systems Biology, Department 
of Biochemistry and Molecular Biotechnology, University of Massachusetts Chan 
Medical School, Worcester, MA 01605, USA.
(22)Director's Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory, 69117 Heidelberg, 
Germany.
(23)Translational Research Department, Research Center, Institut Curie, Paris 
Sciences et Lettres (PSL) Research University, 75005 Paris, France. Electronic 
address: sergio.roman-roman@curie.fr.
(24)Translational Research Department, Research Center, Institut Curie, Paris 
Sciences et Lettres (PSL) Research University, 75005 Paris, France; INSERM U830, 
Research Center, Institut Curie, PSL Research University, 75005 Paris, France. 
Electronic address: joshua.waterfall@curie.fr.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is a rare cancer resulting from the transformation of 
melanocytes in the uveal tract. Integrative analysis has identified four 
molecular and clinical subsets of UM. To improve our molecular understanding of 
UM, we performed extensive multi-omics characterization comparing two aggressive 
UM patient-derived xenograft models with normal choroidal melanocytes, including 
DNA optical mapping, specific histone modifications, and DNA topology analysis 
using Hi-C. Our gene expression and cytogenetic analyses suggest that genomic 
instability is a hallmark of UM. We also identified a recurrent deletion in the 
BAP1 promoter resulting in loss of expression and associated with high risk of 
metastases in UM patients. Hi-C revealed chromatin topology changes associated 
with the upregulation of PRAME, an independent prognostic biomarker in UM, and a 
potential therapeutic target. Our findings illustrate how multi-omics approaches 
can improve our understanding of tumorigenesis and reveal two distinct 
mechanisms of gene expression dysregulation in UM.

Copyright © 2023 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2023.113132
PMCID: PMC10598242
PMID: 37708024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests P.d.l.G. is a 
co-founder of Genosplice technology. A.J. and R.G. are employees of Genosplice 
technology. R.M. is the founder of Cell Environment.


543. Ann Diagn Pathol. 2023 Dec;67:152211. doi:
10.1016/j.anndiagpath.2023.152211.  Epub 2023 Sep 13.

Diagnostic utility of combining PRAME and HMB-45 stains in primary melanocytic 
tumors.

Rasic D(1), Korsgaard N(2), Marcussen N(3), Precht Jensen EM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Research Unit of Pathology, University Hospital of 
Southern Denmark, 6200 Aabenraa, Denmark. Electronic address: 
Dusan.Rasic@rsyd.dk.
(2)Department of Clinical Pathology, Hospital South West Jutland, 6700 Esbjerg, 
Denmark. Electronic address: Niels.Korsgaard@rsyd.dk.
(3)Department of Pathology, Research Unit of Pathology, University Hospital of 
Southern Denmark, 6200 Aabenraa, Denmark. Electronic address: 
Niels.Marcussen@rsyd.dk.
(4)Department of Pathology, Research Unit of Pathology, University Hospital of 
Southern Denmark, 6200 Aabenraa, Denmark. Electronic address: 
Eva.Jensen@rsyd.dk.

BACKGROUND: Pathologists face ongoing challenges distinguishing between benign 
and malignant melanocytic tumors. PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in 
Melanoma) has a demonstrated value distinguishing between these types of 
lesions. However, the sensitivity of single immunohistochemistry is variable. 
HMB-45 is another valuable marker, but on its own, has a limited ability in 
setting of primary melanocytic tumors. This study sought to evaluate the 
diagnostic potential of a dual panel combining PRAME and HMB-45 in the 
assessment of primary melanocytic tumors.
METHODS: 259 tumors, of which 141 were benign nevi, 31 dysplastic nevi (either 
low- or high grade dysplasia), and further 87 malignant melanomas, were 
retrieved from the department's archives and assessed by two experienced 
dermatopathologists. New sections were stained with PRAME and HMB-45, 
respectively. For PRAME, a nuclear, and for HMB-45, a cytoplasmic staining, was 
considered positive and scored as described in the literature on a scale from 0 
to 4+. Only dermal component was assessed on HMB-45 stain.
RESULTS: PRAME was diffusely expressed in only 1 benign nevus, with focal 
expression in further 28 compared to 22 diffusely and 103 focally 
HMB-45-positive benign nevi. 5 high-grade dysplastic nevi showed diffuse PRAME 
expression in epidermal component, with varying degree of positivity in adjacent 
dermal compartment, and further 8 dysplastic nevi showed only focal expression. 
HMB-45 was diffusely expressed in only 2, with focal expression in 23, and no 
apparent positivity in remaining 6 dysplastic nevi. In invasive melanoma group, 
PRAME stained >75 % cells in 64/87 tumors, however, 10/87 melanomas were 
completely negative. HMB-45 was captured diffusely in 49/87 melanomas, 32 showed 
patchy expression, and 6 tumors were blank negative. Diffuse 4+ PRAME positivity 
showed superior sensitivity and specificity of 73,6 % and 96,5 %, respectively, 
compared to HMB-45, 56,3 % and 86,0 %, respectively. No nevi showed double 4+ 
positivity, however, the sensitivity for double positivity was only 49,4 %.
CONCLUSION: Our results confirm the superiority of PRAME over HMB-45 in the 
differential diagnosis of melanocytic tumors. However, combined staining can 
significantly increase specificity, rendering a benign diagnosis more unlikely 
in a double 4+ diffuse positivity setting.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anndiagpath.2023.152211
PMID: 37717457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


544. Virchows Arch. 2023 Dec;483(6):847-854. doi: 10.1007/s00428-023-03648-w.
Epub  2023 Sep 19.

Refining the application of PRAME-a useful marker in high CSD and acral melanoma 
subtypes.

Wakefield C(1)(2), O'Keefe L(3), Heffron CCBB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Cork University Hospital, Wilton, Cork, Ireland. 
cwakefield1@bwh.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis Street, 
Boston, MA, 02115, USA. cwakefield1@bwh.harvard.edu.
(3)Department of Pathology, Cork University Hospital, Wilton, Cork, Ireland.

Pathologic discordance affecting patient management may approach 20% in 
melanocytic cases following specialist review. The diagnostic utility of PRAME 
has been highlighted in several studies but interpretative challenges exist 
including its use in severely dysplastic compound nevi showing progression to 
melanoma in situ, nevoid melanoma, and coexisting nevi with melanoma. We examine 
the PRAME status of a broad spectrum of melanocytic lesions including 
challenging, dysplastic nevi with severe atypia from a large Irish patient 
cohort. Retrospective review of the dermatopathology database was conducted to 
evaluate the PRAME staining characteristics of two hundred and twenty-one 
melanocytic lesions using a commercially available PRAME antibody (EPR20330). 
The proportion of nuclear labeling and intensity of staining was recorded. The 
sensitivity and specificity of PRAME for in situ and malignant melanocytic 
lesions was 77% and 100%, respectively. Virtually all of our melanoma in situ 
from high-cumulative sun damaged (CSD) skin (22/23) and all acral lentiginous 
melanoma (5/5) were PRAME positive while 80% (8/10) of our lentigo maligna 
melanoma showed diffuse expression. None of our benign subgroup showed diffuse 
immunoexpression (0/82), including thirty-seven moderate or severely dysplastic 
nevi. In all cases of melanoma in situ arising in association with a dysplastic 
compound nevus (0/10), no immunoexpression was observed in the nevic component 
while in five cases of melanoma in situ with coexistent, intradermal nevus 
immunostaining was confined to the in situ component. A total of 100% (2/2) of 
desmoplastic melanomas and 50% (4/8) of nodular melanomas were PRAME positive. 
PRAME is a sensitive and highly specific immunostain in the diagnosis of in situ 
and invasive melanoma and we emphasize its application in the evaluation of high 
CSD and acral melanoma subtypes as well as in challenging threshold cases.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-023-03648-w
PMID: 37723345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Am J Surg Pathol. 2023 Dec 1;47(12):1390-1397. doi: 
10.1097/PAS.0000000000002125. Epub 2023 Sep 19.

PRAME Expression Is a Useful Tool in the Diagnosis of Primary and Metastatic 
Dedifferentiated and Undifferentiated Melanoma.

Hornick JL(1), Plaza JA(2), Mentzel T(3), Gru AA(4), Brenn T(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA.
(2)Division of Dermatopathology, Department of Pathology, The Ohio State 
University Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, OH.
(3)MVZ Dermatopathologie Friedrichshafen/Bodensee PartG, Friedrichshafen, 
Germany.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA.
(5)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine.
(6)Arnie Charbonneau Cancer Institute, Cumming School of Medicine, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.

Although mostly recognized in the metastatic setting dedifferentiated and 
undifferentiated melanomas are increasingly recognized as cutaneous and, less 
commonly, mucosal primary tumors. Their diagnosis is challenging and dependent 
on sampling and recognition of a conventional melanoma precursor and/or 
detection of a mutation in a conventional melanoma driver gene. PRAME 
immunohistochemistry has recently become an important ancillary tool in the 
separation of melanoma from benign nevi, but no comprehensive studies exist 
regarding its value in the detection of dedifferentiated and undifferentiated 
melanomas and their separation from atypical fibroxanthoma and pleomorphic 
dermal sarcoma, the main differential diagnoses on sun-damaged skin. After 
retrieval from archival files, we performed PRAME immunohistochemistry on 11 
primary and 10 metastatic dedifferentiated and undifferentiated melanomas, 11 
atypical fibroxanthomas, and 10 pleomorphic dermal sarcomas. Nuclear staining 
was assigned extent (ranging from 0 to 4 and reflecting the percentage of 
PRAME-positive tumor nuclei) and intensity scores (graded as absent, weak, 
moderate, and strong, with assigned scores ranging from 0 to 3) with combined 
scores ranging from 0 to 7. Both primary and metastatic dedifferentiated and 
undifferentiated melanomas showed strong and diffuse nuclear PRAME staining with 
median combined scores of 7. Strong and diffuse staining was also seen in all 
conventional melanoma precursors except for desmoplastic melanoma. In contrast, 
PRAME staining in atypical fibroxanthoma and pleomorphic dermal sarcoma was 
patchy and weak with median combined scores of 2. Our data emphasize the 
diagnostic utility of PRAME staining as a first screening tool in the detection 
and workup of dedifferentiated and undifferentiated melanomas, both in the 
primary and metastatic settings. PRAME immunohistochemistry is particularly 
helpful as it is also positive in tumors without a recognizable conventional 
melanoma precursor and in those associated with desmoplastic melanomas, where 
PRAME is typically found to be negative.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000002125
PMID: 37727938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest and Source of Funding: The 
authors have disclosed that they have no significant relationships with, or 
financial interest in, any commercial companies pertaining to this article.


546. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2023 Dec;149(18):16779-16795. doi: 
10.1007/s00432-023-05423-5. Epub 2023 Sep 20.

Identification of a novel five ferroptosis-related gene signature as a promising 
prognostic model for breast cancer.

Cheng TC(1)(2), Wu JH(#)(1)(3), Zhu B(1), Gao HY(4), Zheng L(5), Chen WX(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's 
Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, 29 Xinglongxiang, Changzhou, 213000, 
Jiangsu Province, China.
(2)Graduate School, Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu, 233000, Anhui Province, 
China.
(3)Graduate School, Dalian Medical University, Dalian, 116000, Liaoning 
Province, China.
(4)Department of Breast Surgery, The Affiliated Changzhou Tumor Hospital of 
Soochow University, Changzhou, 213000, Jiangsu Province, China.
(5)Department of Breast Surgery, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's 
Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, 29 Xinglongxiang, Changzhou, 213000, 
Jiangsu Province, China. zhenglinzmm@126.com.
(6)Department of Breast Surgery, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's 
Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, 29 Xinglongxiang, Changzhou, 213000, 
Jiangsu Province, China. chenweixian@njmu.edu.cn.
(7)Post-Doctoral Working Station, The Affiliated Changzhou No. 2 People's 
Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, ChangzhouJiangsu Province, 213000, 
China. chenweixian@njmu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BCa) is a major challenge for women's health 
worldwide. Ferroptosis is closely related to tumorigenesis and cancer 
progression. However, the prognostic value of ferroptosis-related genes in BCa 
remains unclear, and more accurate prognostic models are urgently needed.
METHODS: Gene expression profiles and clinical information of BCa patients were 
collected from public databases. LASSO and multivariate Cox regression analysis 
were utilized to construct the prognostic gene signature. Kaplan-Meier plotter, 
receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves, and nomogram were used to 
validate the prognostic value of the gene signature. Gene set enrichment 
analysis was performed to explore the molecular functions and signaling 
pathways.
RESULTS: Differentially expressed ferroptosis-related genes between BCa samples 
and normal tissues were obtained. A novel five-gene signature including BCL2, 
SLC40A1, TFF1, APOOL, and PRAME was established for prognosis prediction. 
Patients stratified into high-risk or low-risk group displayed significantly 
different survival. Kaplan-Meier and ROC curves showed a good performance for 
survival prediction in different cohorts. Biological function analysis revealed 
that the five-gene signature was associated with cancer progression, immune 
infiltration, immune response, and drug resistance. Nomogram including the 
five-gene signature was established.
CONCLUSION: A novel five ferroptosis-related gene signature and nomogram could 
be used for prognostic prediction in BCa.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-023-05423-5
PMCID: PMC10645672
PMID: 37728703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of 
interest.


547. Br J Ophthalmol. 2023 Sep 21:bjo-2023-323816. doi: 10.1136/bjo-2023-323816. 
Online ahead of print.

Ki67 is a better marker than PRAME in risk stratification of BAP1-positive and 
BAP1-loss uveal melanomas.

Donizy P(1)(2), Spytek M(3), Krzyziński M(3), Kotowski K(1), Markiewicz A(4), 
Romanowska-Dixon B(4), Biecek P(3), Hoang MP(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, Wroclaw Medical 
University, Wroclaw, Poland.
(2)Department of Pathology and Clinical Cytology, Jan Mikulicz-Radecki 
University Hospital, Wroclaw, Poland.
(3)Faculty of Mathematics and Information Science, Warsaw University of 
Technology, Warsaw, Poland.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology and Ocular Oncology, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Kraków, Poland.
(5)Department of Pathology, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA mhoang@mgh.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: Accurate risk stratification of uveal melanoma (UM) patients is 
important for determining the interval and frequency of surveillance. Loss of 
BAP1 expression has been shown to be strongly associated with UM-related death 
and metastasis.
METHODS: In this study of 164 enucleated UMs, we assessed the prognostic role of 
preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) expression and Ki67 
proliferation index measured by digital quantitation using QuPath programme in 
patients with BAP1-positive and BAP1-loss UMs.
RESULTS: In univariate analyses with log-rank tests and Kaplan-Meier curves, 
PRAME further stratified only overall survival (OS) in BAP1-positive and 
BAP1-loss tumour groups. However, Ki67 further stratified both OS and 
disease-free survival (DFS) in BAP1-positive and BAP1-loss tumour groups. In 
multivariate analyses, Ki67 percentage and BAP1 were independent survival 
predictors for both OS and DFS, whereas PRAME was not a significant covariate. 
In model comparisons, combined Ki67 and BAP1 performed better than combined 
PRAME and BAP1 in risk-stratifying patients for both OS and DFS. Ki67 was better 
than PRAME in risk stratification of BAP1-positive UMs. Low Ki67 index 
correlated with significantly prolonged DFS in BAP1-loss UMs.
CONCLUSION: A panel of Ki67 and BAP1 could be a helpful risk stratification 
strategy for UM.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo-2023-323816
PMID: 37734766

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


548. J Cutan Pathol. 2024 Feb;51(2):92-98. doi: 10.1111/cup.14539. Epub 2023 Sep
24.

Apocrine carcinoma with marked sebocyte-like cytological features: A report of 
two cases.

Sasaki-Saito N(1)(2), Goto K(1)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7)(8)(9)(10), Aoki M(1), Nishihara 
K(1), Hiraki T(3), Yoshikawa S(11), Matsushita S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermato-Oncology/Dermatology, National Hospital Organization 
Kagoshima Medical Center, Kagoshima, Japan.
(2)Department of Dermatology, University of Occupational and Environmental 
Health, Kitakyushu, Japan.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Sunto, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Pathology, Tokyo Metropolitan Cancer and Infectious Disease 
Center Komagome Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Department of Pathology, Itabashi Central Clinical Laboratory, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Tokyo Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Chutoen General Medical Center, Kakegawa, 
Japan.
(8)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Cytology, Osaka International Cancer 
Institute, Osaka, Japan.
(9)Department of Diagnostic Pathology, Osaka National Hospital, Osaka, Japan.
(10)Department of Dermatology, Hyogo Cancer Center, Akashi, Japan.
(11)Department of Dermatology, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Sunto, Japan.

Apocrine carcinoma cases with sebaceous differentiation have not been reported 
and can be misdiagnosed as sebaceous carcinoma. We present two cases of apocrine 
carcinoma with marked sebocyte-like cytological features. Tumors were observed 
in the left axilla of a 68-year-old man (Case 1) and the right axilla of a 
72-year-old man (Case 2). Both patients presented with multiple lymph node 
metastases. Histopathology revealed densely distributed solid nests of tumor 
cells containing foamy cytoplasm and enlarged round nuclei with prominent 
nucleoli. The tumor cells diffusely expressed adipophilin, PRAME (cytoplasmic 
pattern), androgen receptor, BerEP4, and GCDFP15 but did not express p63 in both 
cases. PIK3CA E726K and H1047R mutations were detected in Cases 1 and 2, 
respectively. Tumor location in the axilla, the presence of eosinophilic 
granular cytoplasm, prominent nucleoli, and PIK3CA mutations, immunoreactivity 
for BerEP4 and GCDFP15, and lack of p63 immunoexpression findings matched 
apocrine carcinoma characteristics, but not sebaceous carcinoma. Thus, apocrine 
carcinoma can demonstrate intracytoplasmic lipid accumulation and rarely exhibit 
sebocyte-like cytological features. Apocrine carcinoma should be distinguished 
from sebaceous carcinoma due to the former's higher metastatic potential and 
lack of association with Muir-Torre syndrome.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14539
PMID: 37743579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Biomol Struct Dyn. 2023 Sep 28:1-17. doi: 10.1080/07391102.2023.2263213. 
Online ahead of print.

Design of a novel multi-epitope vaccine candidate against endometrial cancer 
using immunoinformatics and bioinformatics approaches.

Li X(1), Wen H(2)(3)(4), Xiao X(1), Ren Z(1), Tan C(5)(6), Fu C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central 
South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Spine Surgery and Orthopaedics, Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(3)National Clinical Research Center for Geriatric Disorders, Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Organ Injury, Aging and Regenerative Medicine of Hunan 
Province, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(5)Department of Infection Control Center of Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine, National Key Clinical Specialty, Branch 
of National Clinical Research Center for Respiratory Disease, Xiangya Hospital, 
Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, China.

Endometrial cancer (EC) is one of the most common cancers of the female 
reproductive system. Multi-epitope vaccine may be a promising and effective 
strategy against EC. In this study, we designed a novel multi-epitope vaccine 
based on the antigenic proteins PRAME and TMPRSS4 using immunoinformatics and 
bioinformatics approaches. After a rigorous selection process, 14 cytotoxic T 
lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes, 6 helper T lymphocyte (HTL) epitopes, and 8 B cell 
epitopes (BCEs) were finally selected for vaccine construction. To enhance the 
immunogenicity of the vaccine candidate, the pan HLA DR-binding epitope was 
included in the vaccine design as an adjuvant. The final vaccine construct had 
455 amino acids and a molecular weight of 49.8 kDa, and was predicted to cover 
95.03% of the total world population. Docking analysis showed that there were 10 
hydrogen bonds and 19 hydrogen bonds in the vaccine-HLA-A*02:01 and 
vaccine-HLA-DRB1*01:01 complexes, respectively, indicating that the vaccine has 
a good affinity to MHC molecules. This was further supported by molecular 
dynamics (MD) simulation. Immune simulation showed that the designed vaccine was 
able to induce higher levels of immune cell activity, with the secretion of 
numerous cytokines. The codon adaptation index (CAI) value and GC content of the 
optimised codon sequences of the vaccine were 0.986 and 54.43%, respectively, 
indicating that the vaccine has the potential to be highly expressed. The in 
silico analysis suggested that the designed vaccine may provide a novel 
therapeutic option for the individualised treatment of EC patients in the 
future.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

DOI: 10.1080/07391102.2023.2263213
PMID: 37771176


550. Anticancer Res. 2023 Oct;43(10):4551-4557. doi: 10.21873/anticanres.16649.

Prognostic Implications of PRAME Expression and Clinicopathological Factors in 
Sinonasal Mucosal Melanoma: A Single-center Cohort Study of 30 Cases.

Durzynska M(1), Dos Santos FLC(2), Matuszczyk A(3), Derezinska-Wolek E(3), 
Michalek IM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Maria Sklodowska-Curie National Research Institute 
of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland; monika.durzynska@nio.gov.pl.
(2)Harvard Business School, Harvard University, Boston, MA, U.S.A.
(3)Department of Pathology, Maria Sklodowska-Curie National Research Institute 
of Oncology, Warsaw, Poland.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Mucosal melanoma (MM) is a rare, aggressive neoplasm in the head 
and neck region, primarily affecting the nasal cavity and maxillary sinus. This 
study investigates the correlation of PRAME IHC staining with 
clinicopathological factors and survival outcomes in sinonasal MM.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The retrospective cohort included patients diagnosed with 
melanoma from January 2011 to May 2022. Histopathological reassessment confirmed 
MM subtype (epithelioid or spindle). IHC testing involved S100, MelanA, HMB45, 
SOX10, PRAME, BRAF V600E, and pan-TRK. Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazards 
analyses explored survival probabilities and outcomes.
RESULTS: The cohort comprised 30 patients (17 females, 13 males) with a mean age 
of 65 years (standard deviation 13). The 5-year survival probability was 
approximately 32%. Cox analysis revealed male sex and PRAME IHC staining in ≥70% 
of cells as associated with lower survival probability.
CONCLUSION: In sinonasal MM, PRAME IHC staining in ≥70% of cells is associated 
with significantly lower survival probability. Male sex, pN1 stage, and tumor 
location in the sinus are also predictive of poorer survival outcomes. These 
findings highlight the potential prognostic significance of PRAME expression and 
other clinicopathological factors in MM. Further studies are warranted to 
validate and expand upon these observations.

Copyright © 2023 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. George J. 
Delinasios), All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21873/anticanres.16649
PMID: 37772580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. PLoS One. 2023 Oct 5;18(10):e0290542. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0290542. 
eCollection 2023.

Molecular and clinicopathological implications of PRAME expression in adult 
glioma.

Le MK(1), Vuong HG(2), Dunn IF(3), Kondo T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Yamanashi, Chuo City, Yamanashi 
Prefecture, Japan.
(2)Department of Pathology, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa City, 
IA, United States of America.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Oklahoma University Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City, OK, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a biomarker 
studied in various human cancers. Little is known about the biological 
implications of PRAME in glioma. We aimed to perform a comprehensive analysis to 
explore PRAME gene expression and its biological and clinicopathological 
significance in gliomas.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We accessed the human cancer atlas (TCGA) database to 
collect glioma patients (n = 668) with primary tumors and gene expression data. 
Single nucleotide variants, copy number variation, DNA methylation data, and 
other clinicopathological factors were also extracted for the analysis.
RESULTS: Overall, 170, 484, and 14 tumors showed no expression, low expression 
(FPKM≤1), and overexpression (FPKM>1) of the PRAME gene, respectively. The 
principal component analysis and pathway analyses showed that PRAME-positive 
gliomas (n = 498), which consisted of tumors with PRAME low expression and 
overexpression, expressed different oncogenic profiles, possessing higher 
activity of Hedgehog, P3IK-AKT-mTOR, and Wnt/β-catenin pathways (p<0.001). DNA 
methylation analysis also illustrated that PRAME-positive tumors were 
distributed more densely within a grade 4-related cluster (p<0.001). PRAME 
positivity was an independent prognostic factor for poor outcomes in a 
multivariate cox analysis adjusted for clinical characteristics and genetic 
events. Kaplan-Meier analysis stratified by revised classification showed that 
PRAME positivity was solely associated with IDH-wildtype glioblastoma, grade 4. 
Finally, PRAME-overexpressing cases (n = 14) had the worst clinical outcome 
compared to the PRAME-negative and PRAME-low cohorts (adjusted p<0.001) in 
pairwise comparisons.
CONCLUSION: PRAME expression statuses may dictate different biological and 
clinicopathological profiles in IDH-wildtype glioblastoma.

Copyright: © 2023 Le et al. This is an open access article distributed under the 
terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted 
use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author 
and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0290542
PMCID: PMC10553321
PMID: 37796789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


552. Nat Commun. 2023 Oct 5;14(1):6209. doi: 10.1038/s41467-023-41994-0.

Single-cell analysis reveals altered tumor microenvironments of relapse- and 
remission-associated pediatric acute myeloid leukemia.

Mumme H(#)(1), Thomas BE(#)(2)(3), Bhasin SS(2)(3), Krishnan U(1)(4), Dwivedi 
B(5), Perumalla P(4), Sarkar D(1)(3), Ulukaya GB(1), Sabnis HS(2)(3), Park 
SI(6), DeRyckere D(2)(3), Raikar SS(2)(3), Pauly M(2)(3), Summers RJ(2)(3), 
Castellino SM(2)(3), Wechsler DS(2)(3), Porter CC(2)(3), Graham DK(2)(3), Bhasin 
M(7)(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.
(4)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA, USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics Shared Resource, Winship 
Cancer Institute, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Department of 
Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA, USA.
(7)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Emory University School of Medicine, 
Atlanta, GA, USA. manoj.bhasin@emory.edu.
(8)Aflac Cancer and Blood Disorders Center, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, GA, USA. manoj.bhasin@emory.edu.
(9)Department of Pediatrics, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA, 
USA. manoj.bhasin@emory.edu.
(10)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA, USA. manoj.bhasin@emory.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) microenvironment exhibits cellular and molecular 
differences among various subtypes. Here, we utilize single-cell RNA sequencing 
(scRNA-seq) to analyze pediatric AML bone marrow (BM) samples from diagnosis 
(Dx), end of induction (EOI), and relapse timepoints. Analysis of Dx, EOI 
scRNA-seq, and TARGET AML RNA-seq datasets reveals an AML blasts-associated 
7-gene signature (CLEC11A, PRAME, AZU1, NREP, ARMH1, C1QBP, TRH), which we 
validate on independent datasets. The analysis reveals distinct clusters of Dx 
relapse- and continuous complete remission (CCR)-associated AML-blasts with 
differential expression of genes associated with survival. At Dx, 
relapse-associated samples have more exhausted T cells while CCR-associated 
samples have more inflammatory M1 macrophages. Post-therapy EOI residual blasts 
overexpress fatty acid oxidation, tumor growth, and stemness genes. Also, a 
post-therapy T-cell cluster associated with relapse samples exhibits 
downregulation of MHC Class I and T-cell regulatory genes. Altogether, this 
study deeply characterizes pediatric AML relapse- and CCR-associated samples to 
provide insights into the BM microenvironment landscape.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41467-023-41994-0
PMCID: PMC10556066
PMID: 37798266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: M.B. serves on the board of Canomiks Inc. as 
chief scientific advisor and has equity in it. D.K.G. and D.D. hold equity in 
Meryx Inc. S.S.B. serves as CEO of Anxomics LLC and has equity in it. The 
remaining authors declare no other competing interests.


553. Zhonghua Bing Li Xue Za Zhi. 2023 Oct 8;52(10):1006-1011. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.cn112151-20230226-00152.

[Clinicopathological and prognostic features of subungual melanoma in situ].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Hu J(1), Ren M(1), Cai X(1), Lyu JJ(1), Shen XX(1), Kong YY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center/Department 
of Oncology, Shanghai Medical College, Fudan University/Institute of Pathology, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China.

Objective: To investigate the clinicopathological characteristics, 
immunohistochemical profiles, molecular features, and prognosis of subungual 
melanoma in situ (SMIS). Methods: Thirty cases of SMIS were collected in Fudan 
University Shanghai Cancer Center, Shanghai, China from 2018 to 2022. The 
clinicopathological characteristics and follow-up data were retrospectively 
analyzed. Histopathologic evaluation and immunohistochemical studies were 
carried out. By using Vysis melanoma fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) 
probe kit, combined with 9p21(CDKN2A) and 8q24(MYC) assays were performed. 
Results: There were 8 males and 22 females. The patients' ages ranged from 22 to 
65 years (median 48 years). All patients presented with longitudinal 
melanonychia involving a single digit. Thumb was the most commonly affected 
digit (16/30, 53.3%). 56.7% (17/30) of the cases presented with Hutchinson's 
sign. Microscopically, melanocytes proliferated along the dermo-epithelial 
junction. Hyperchromatism and nuclear pleomorphism were two of the most common 
histological features. The melanocyte count ranged from 30 to 185. Most cases 
showed small to medium nuclear enlargement (29/30, 96.7%). Pagetoid spread was 
seen in all cases. Intra-epithelial mitoses were identified in 56.7% (17/30) of 
the cases. Involvement of nailfold was found in 19 cases, 4 of which were 
accompanied by cutaneous adnexal extension. The positive rates of SOX10, PNL2, 
Melan A, HMB45, S-100, and PRAME were 100.0%, 100.0%, 96.0%, 95.0%, 76.9%, and 
83.3%, respectively. FISH analysis was positive in 6/9 of the cases. Follow-up 
data were available in 28 patients, and all of them were alive without disease. 
Conclusions: SMIS mainly shows small to medium-sized cells. High melanocyte 
count, hyperchromatism, nuclear pleomorphism, Pagetoid spreading, 
intra-epithelial mitosis, nailfold involvement, and cutaneous adnexal extension 
are important diagnostic hallmarks. Immunohistochemistry including SOX10 and 
PRAME, combined with FISH analysis, is valuable for the diagnosis of SMIS.

Publisher: 目的： 探讨原位甲下黑色素瘤（subungual melanoma in 
situ，SMIS）的临床病理学、免疫组织化学、分子生物学及预后。 方法： 
收集复旦大学附属肿瘤医院2018—2022年间SMIS共30例，评估其病理学特征，分析免疫组织化学和黑色素瘤第一代组合荧光原位杂交（FISH）联合9p21（CDKN2A）和8q24（MYC）基因检测结果，并随访患者生存情况。 
结果： 
患者30例，男性8例，女性22例，年龄范围为22~65岁（中位年龄48岁）。所有病例均表现为甲纵行黑线，最常受累的部位是大拇指（16/30，53.3%），56.7%（17/30）的病例具有Hutchinson现象。30例都表现为甲母质上皮黑色素细胞的增生，细胞核深染且不规则，细胞密度计数（melanocyte 
count，MC）范围30~185。29例细胞呈小到中等大小（29/30，96.7%）。30例均有Paget样播散现象，56.7%（17/30）的病例甲母质/甲床上皮内增生的肿瘤细胞中可见核分裂象。19例镜下见皮肤累及，其中4例同时累及附属器。SOX10、PNL2、Melan 
A、HMB45、S-100蛋白和PRAME蛋白的阳性率分别为100.0%、100.0%、96.0%、95.0%、76.9%和83.3%。9例行FISH检测，其中6例阳性。28例具随访资料，均无病生存。 
结论： 
SMIS细胞以小到中等大小为主。MC较高、核深染且不规则、Paget样播散现象、上皮内增生的黑色素细胞出现核分裂象、累及周围皮肤及附属器等都是诊断SMIS的重要线索。SOX10和PRAME等免疫组织化学以及FISH检测可以协助诊断。.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.cn112151-20230226-00152
PMID: 37805391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Cell Commun Signal. 2023 Oct 12;21(1):285. doi: 10.1186/s12964-023-01314-x.

Correction: Intrinsic disorder in PRAME and its role in uveal melanoma.

Antonietti M(1), Taylor Gonzalez DJ(1), Djulbegovic M(1), Dayhoff GW 2nd(2), 
Uversky VN(3), Shields CL(4), Karp CL(5).

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, 900 NW 17Th Street, Miami, 
FL, 33136, USA.
(2)Department of Chemistry, College of Art and Sciences, University of South 
Florida, Tampa, FL, 33612, USA.
(3)Department of Molecular Medicine and USF Health Byrd Alzheimer's Research 
Institute, Morsani College of Medicine, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, 
33612, USA.
(4)Ocular Oncology Service, Wills Eye Hospital, Thomas Jefferson University, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(5)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami, 900 NW 17Th Street, Miami, 
FL, 33136, USA. ckarp@med.miami.edu.

Erratum for
    Cell Commun Signal. 2023 Aug 25;21(1):222.

DOI: 10.1186/s12964-023-01314-x
PMCID: PMC10568745
PMID: 37828519


555. Diagnostics (Basel). 2023 Sep 29;13(19):3092. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics13193092.

Characterization of Cancer/Testis Antigens as Prognostic Markers of Ovarian 
Cancer.

Vlasenkova R(1), Konysheva D(1), Nurgalieva A(1), Kiyamova R(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomarker Research Laboratory, Institute of Fundamental Medicine and Biology, 
Kazan Federal University, Kazan 420008, Russia.

The main goal of this study was to characterize cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) as 
potential molecular markers of ovarian cancer. First, we gathered and analyzed a 
significantly large dataset of 21 selected CTAs that are encoded by 32 genes; 
the dataset consisted of the mutation data, expression data, and survival data 
of patients with ovarian cancer (n = 15,665). The 19 functionally significant 
missense mutations were identified in 9 CTA genes: ACRBP, CCT4, KDM5B, MAGEA1, 
MAGEA4, PIWIL1, PIWIL2, PRAME, and SPA17. The analysis of the mRNA expression 
levels of 21 CTAs in healthy and tumor ovarian tissue showed an up-regulation in 
the expression level of AKAP3, MAGEA4, PIWIL1, and PRAME in tumor samples and a 
down-regulation in the expression level of CTAG1A, CTAG1B, MAGEC1, and PIWIL2. 
The CCT4 up-regulation and PRAME mutations were correlated with a good prognosis 
for ovarian cancer, while higher levels of GAGE2A and CT45A1 mRNAs were 
correlated with a poor prognosis for ovarian cancer patients. Thus, GAGE2, CT45, 
CCT4, and PRAME cancer/testis antigens can be considered as potential prognostic 
markers for ovarian tumors, and GAGE2, CCT4, and PRAME were revealed to be 
correlated with the prognosis for ovarian cancer patients for the first time.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics13193092
PMCID: PMC10572515
PMID: 37835834

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


556. Am J Dermatopathol. 2023 Nov 1;45(11):733-747. doi: 
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002440.

Immunohistochemistry for PRAME in Dermatopathology.

Lezcano C(1), Jungbluth AA(2), Busam KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathologist, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Memorial Sloan 
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.
(2)Pathologist, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Memorial Sloan 
Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY; and.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) is a tumor-associated 
antigen first identified in a melanoma patient and found to be expressed in most 
melanomas as well as in variable levels in other malignant neoplasms of 
epithelial, mesenchymal, or hematolymphoid lineage. Detection of PRAME 
expression in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue is possible by 
immunohistochemistry (IHC) with commercially available monoclonal antibodies. In 
situ and invasive melanoma frequently show a diffuse pattern of nuclear PRAME 
immunoreactivity which contrasts with the infrequent and typically nondiffuse 
staining seen in nevi. In many challenging melanocytic tumors, results of PRAME 
IHC and other ancillary tests correlate well, but not always: The tests are not 
interchangeable. Most metastatic melanomas are positive for PRAME, whereas nodal 
nevi are not. Numerous studies on PRAME IHC have become available in the past 
few years with results supporting the value of PRAME IHC as an ancillary tool in 
the evaluation of melanocytic lesions and providing insights into limitations in 
sensitivity and specificity as well as possible pitfalls that need to be kept in 
mind by practicing pathologists.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002440
PMCID: PMC10593485
PMID: 37856737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Am J Dermatopathol. 2023 Nov 1;45(11):748-752. doi: 
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002555.

Comparison of Melanocyte-Associated Immunohistochemical Markers in Acral 
Lentiginous Melanoma and Acral Benign Nevi.

Kim JC(1), Choi JW, Kim YC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Ajou University School of Medicine, Suwon, Korea.

Acral lentiginous melanoma (ALM) is a relatively rare clinicopathologic subtype 
of cutaneous malignant melanoma, but it is the most common type of melanoma 
among Asians. Although the research to identify immunohistochemical (IHC) 
markers to differentiate nevi from melanoma is being conducted, specific markers 
for ALM are not well-known. Therefore, we aimed to analyze and compare the 
differences in the expression of melanocyte-associated IHC markers between ALM 
and acral benign nevi (ABN). Two independent groups of 53 and 19 
paraffin-embedded specimens (from patients with pathologically confirmed ALM and 
ABN, respectively) were subjected to IHC staining for MART-1, preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), SOX10, HMB-45, Ki-67, and p16. We 
performed a quantitative analysis of PRAME, SOX10, KI-67, and p16 expression and 
gradient pattern analysis of HMB-45 expression for each specimen. The PRAME 
(60.1% and 28.5%, P < 0.05) and Ki-67 (7.8% and 3.5%, P < 0.05) expression 
levels were significantly higher in the ALM group than in the ABN group. The p16 
expression was significantly lower (14.2% and 19.4%, P < 0.05), and the absence 
of HMB-45 gradient was more frequent in the ALM group than in the ABN group. 
However, no statistical significance was noted in SOX10 (54.8% and 44.7%). 
Receiver operating characteristic curves showed that PRAME had the highest area 
under the curve value. In summary, among various IHC markers, PRAME was the most 
valuable marker for the diagnosis of ALM; however, further large-scale studies 
are needed to validate these findings.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002555
PMID: 37856738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


558. Pathology. 2023 Dec;55(7):929-944. doi: 10.1016/j.pathol.2023.08.003. Epub
2023  Sep 22.

Characterisation of the protein expression of the emerging immunotherapy targets 
VISTA, LAG-3 and PRAME in primary uveal melanoma: insights from a southern 
French patient cohort.

Lamas NJ(1), Lassalle S(2), Martel A(3), Nahon-Estève S(3), Macocco A(4), Zahaf 
K(4), Lalvee S(4), Fayada J(4), Lespinet-Fabre V(2), Bordone O(2), Pedeutour 
F(5), Baillif S(3), Hofman P(6).

Author information:
(1)Université Côte d'Azur, Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, 
Biobank BB-0033-00025, Pasteur Hospital, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Nice, Nice, France; Anatomic Pathology Service, Pathology Department, Centro 
Hospitalar Universitário de Santo António (CHUdSA), Porto, Largo Professor Abel 
Salazar, Porto, Portugal; Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), 
School of Medicine, University of Minho, Campus de Gualtar, Braga, Portugal; 
ICVS/3B's, PT Government Associate Laboratory, University of Minho, 
Braga/Guimarães, Portugal.
(2)Université Côte d'Azur, Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, 
Biobank BB-0033-00025, Pasteur Hospital, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Nice, Nice, France; IRCAN Team 4, Inserm U1081/CNRS 7284, Centre de Lutte contre 
le Cancer Antoine Lacassagne, Nice, France; FHU OncoAge, Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire de Nice, Nice, France.
(3)Université Côte d'Azur, Department of Ophthalmology, Pasteur Hospital, Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, Nice, France.
(4)Université Côte d'Azur, Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, 
Biobank BB-0033-00025, Pasteur Hospital, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Nice, Nice, France.
(5)Laboratory of Solid Tumour Genetics, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Nice, Université Côte d'Azur, Nice, France.
(6)Université Côte d'Azur, Laboratory of Clinical and Experimental Pathology, 
Biobank BB-0033-00025, Pasteur Hospital, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Nice, Nice, France; IRCAN Team 4, Inserm U1081/CNRS 7284, Centre de Lutte contre 
le Cancer Antoine Lacassagne, Nice, France; FHU OncoAge, Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire de Nice, Nice, France. Electronic address: hofman.p@chu-nice.fr.

Uveal melanoma (UM) is the most common intraocular tumour in adults, with dismal 
prognosis once metastases develop, since therapeutic options for the metastatic 
disease are ineffective. Over the past decade, novel cancer therapies based on 
immunotherapy have changed the landscape of treatment of different forms of 
cancer leading to many hopes of improvement in patient overall survival (OS). 
VISTA, LAG-3 and PRAME are novel promising targets of immunotherapy that have 
recently gained attention in different solid tumours, but whose relevance in UM 
remained to be comprehensively evaluated until now. Here, we studied the protein 
expression of VISTA, LAG-3 and PRAME using immunohistochemistry in 
representative whole tissue sections from primary UM cases in a cohort of 30 
patients from a single centre (Nice University Hospital, Nice, France). The 
expression of each of these markers was correlated with different clinical and 
pathological parameters, including onset of metastases and OS. We demonstrated 
the protein expression of VISTA and LAG-3 in small lymphocytes infiltrating the 
tumour, while no expression of the proteins was detected in UM cells. For PRAME, 
nuclear expression was observed in UM cells, but no expression in tumour 
infiltrating immune cells was identified. Increased levels of VISTA expression 
in tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) were associated with nuclear BAP1 
expression and better prognosis. Higher levels of LAG-3 in TILs were associated 
with higher levels of CD8-positive TILs. PRAME nuclear positivity in melanoma 
cells was associated with epithelioid cell dominant (>90%) UM histological 
subtype, higher mitotic numbers and a higher percentage of chromosome 8q gain. 
This study proposes VISTA as a novel relevant immune checkpoint molecule in 
primary UM and contributes to confirm LAG-3 and PRAME as potentially important 
immunotherapy targets in the treatment of UM patients, helping to expand the 
number of immunotherapy candidate molecules that are relevant to modulate in 
this aggressive cancer.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2023.08.003
PMID: 37863710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Front Med (Lausanne). 2023 Oct 9;10:1265827. doi: 10.3389/fmed.2023.1265827.
 eCollection 2023.

PRAME immunohistochemistry compared to traditional FISH testing in spitzoid 
neoplasms and other difficult to diagnose melanocytic neoplasms.

Warbasse E(1), Mehregan D(2), Utz S(3), Stansfield RB(4), Abrams J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery, University of South Florida 
Morsani College of Medicine, Tampa, FL, United States.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, 
Detroit, MI, United States.
(3)Essentia Health, Duluth, MN, United States.
(4)Office of Graduate Medical Education, Wayne State University School of 
Medicine, Detroit, MI, United States.
(5)Wayne State University School of Medicine, Detroit, MI, United States.

PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in Melanoma) is a gene first identified 
in melanoma. It has been proposed as a useful marker to differentiate melanoma 
from benign melanocytic neoplasms. Recently genomic testing using fluorescence 
in situ hybridization has been used to aid in the diagnosis of difficult 
melanocytic neoplasms. We have compared PRAME staining to FISH testing results 
in 83 difficult to classify melanocytic neoplasms which showed spitzoid 
histologic features. A relatively low sensitivity of 29.6% and high specificity 
of 76.8% is seen with PRAME staining as compared to genomic testing with 
fluorescence in situ hybridization. This study highlights the limitations of 
PRAME staining in spitzoid neoplasms.

Copyright © 2023 Warbasse, Mehregan, Utz, Stansfield and Abrams.

DOI: 10.3389/fmed.2023.1265827
PMCID: PMC10591151
PMID: 37877026

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


560. Diagn Pathol. 2023 Oct 28;18(1):117. doi: 10.1186/s13000-023-01404-x.

Penile melanoma: a pathological report of two cases.

Pósfai B(#)(1), Szentkereszty M(#)(2), Sánta F(1), Bajory Z(3), Simon A(2), 
Kozéki Z(4), Csányi I(5), Akgul M(6), Kuthi L(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Albert Szent-Györgyi Medical School, University of 
Szeged, Állomás utca 1., Szeged, H-6725, Hungary.
(2)Tumor Pathology Center, National Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Department of Urology, Albert Szent-Györgyi Medical School, University of 
Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
(4)Department of Dermatology, National Institute of Oncology, Budapest, Hungary.
(5)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Albert Szent-Györgyi Medical 
School, University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.
(6)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Albany Medical Center, 
Albany, NY, USA.
(7)Department of Pathology, Albert Szent-Györgyi Medical School, University of 
Szeged, Állomás utca 1., Szeged, H-6725, Hungary. kuthi.levente@med.u-szeged.hu.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Penile melanoma (PM) is a rare tumor, accounting for less than 2% of 
all penile cancers. PM can occur on the surface of the glans, foreskin, and 
opening of the urethra. Furthermore, PM primarily affects older individuals and 
is not associated with sun exposure. Currently, there is no specific staging 
system for genitourinary tract melanomas, so these tumors are typically staged 
using the criteria for cutaneous melanoma. Limited data in the literature 
suggests that PM generally has a poor clinical prognosis.
CASE PRESENTATION: Here, we describe two cases of PM. The first case affected a 
62-year-old male who presented with hematuria and a painful tumor in the distal 
urethra, leading to a suspicion of penile cancer. The second case involved a 
68-year-old male who noticed a rapidly evolving dark spot on his foreskin. 
Histological analysis confirmed the presence of melanoma in both patients. The 
tumors showed a diffuse and strong PRAME-positivity and lacked BRAF mutation in 
both cases. Additionally, the second tumor harbored an activating CKIT mutation. 
An enhanced PD-L1 expression was observed in both tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: We presented two rare forms of mucosal melanoma and highlighted the 
entities in the differential diagnosis. Based on our experience PRAME is a 
helpful marker for making the diagnosis of PM, and PD-L1 can predict the success 
of the immunotherapy. We also emphasize the need for an organ-specific staging 
system for PMs.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13000-023-01404-x
PMCID: PMC10613369
PMID: 37898793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare.


561. Pathol Res Pract. 2023 Nov;251:154915. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2023.154915. Epub
2023  Oct 29.

PRAME expression in 137 primary cutaneous melanomas and comparison with 38 
related metastases.

Lo Bello G(1), Pini GM(2), Giagnacovo M(3), Patriarca C(4).

Author information:
(1)Pathology Unit, St. Anna Hospital (ASST Lariana), Como, Italy. Electronic 
address: giuseppe.lb@hotmail.it.
(2)Department of Pathology, Azienda Ospedaliera SS. Antonio e Biagio e Cesare 
Arrigo di Alessandria, Alessandria, Italy; Department of Pathology, IRCCS San 
Raffaele Scientific Institute, 20132 Milan, Italy.
(3)Genetics Unit, St. Anna Hospital (ASST Lariana), Como, Italy.
(4)Pathology Unit, St. Anna Hospital (ASST Lariana), Como, Italy.

Melanocytic lesions have always represented a diagnostic challenge for surgical 
pathologists. According to the literature, PRAME showed great promise as an 
immunohistochemical tool in the distinction between benign and malignant 
melanocytic lesions. In the present study, we retrospectively analyzed 137 
thicker (Breslow > 1 mm) primary cutaneous melanomas with the aim to better 
understand the utility of PRAME immunohistochemistry in daily practice and also 
to investigate if PRAME could represent a prognostic biomarker for cutaneous 
melanomas. PRAME immunohistochemistry was performed in all melanomas and in the 
metastases with antibodies to PRAME (dilution 1:1000, clone Ab219650) on an 
automated immunostainer (Ventana Benchmark Ultra) using a brown chromogen (DAB). 
We found that melanomas (59.1%) show diffuse PRAME expression (score 4 +). 99 
(72.3%) primary cutaneous melanoma had no relapse during the follow-up. Of this 
group of melanomas, 61/99 (61.6%) were diffusely positive for PRAME. 38 (27.7%) 
primary cutaneous melanoma had relapses. Of this group, 28/36 (77.7%) were 
diffusely positive. We did not find any statistical correlation between diffuse 
PRAME expression and the presence of driver mutation in BRAF gene (p = 0.927), 
NRAS gene (p = 0.496) or either of the two (p = 0.138). We did not find a 
prognostic significance of diffuse PRAME expression for relapse (p = 0.462) or 
survival rate (p = 0.245). The prognostic value of PRAME has been only reported 
in mucosal, uveal and cutaneous thin melanomas. Here, we show statistical 
analyses on PRAME expression for melanoma with Breslow > 1 mm based on survival 
rate and long-term follow-up. According to our results, PRAME is a useful 
immunohistochemical ancillary tool in daily practice diagnosis of melanocytic 
lesions.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2023.154915
PMID: 37913637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.


562. Cancer Diagn Progn. 2023 Nov 3;3(6):695-705. doi: 10.21873/cdp.10274. 
eCollection 2023 Nov-Dec.

Expression Pattern of Tumor-associated Antigens in Neuroblastoma: Association 
With Cytogenetic Features and Survival.

Meleshko A(1), Kushniarova L(1), Shinkevich V(2), Mikhaleuskaya T(1), Valochnik 
A(1), Proleskovskaya I(1).

Author information:
(1)Belarusian Research Center for Pediatric Oncology, Hematology and Immunology, 
Minsk, Belarus.
(2)Institute of Pharmacology, University of Marburg, Marburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND/AIM: The prognosis of high-risk and relapsed neuroblastoma (NB) 
patients remains poor. The identification of tumor-associated markers is 
important for differential diagnosis, prognosis, and the development of targeted 
therapies. The aim of the study was to determine the expression profile of nine 
most common NB antigens and assess their association with clinicopathological 
characteristics and patient survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Tumor samples from 86 patients with NB were evaluated for 
the expression of tumor-associated antigen (TAA) using quantitative PCR. 
Twenty-one patients with benign tumors and 17 healthy donors were assigned as 
controls.
RESULTS: Overexpression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), PHOX2B, PRAME, GPC2, 
B7-H3, and Survivin is the most typical for NB. Positive expression of MAGEA3, 
MAGEA1, and NY-ESO-1 at low levels was detected in 54%, 48%, and 52%, 
respectively, and was not NB specific. Higher TH expression was observed in 
samples without MYCN-amplification, while higher expression of Survivin, PHOX2B, 
and GPC2 was significantly associated with the presence of 1p.36 deletion. 
Overexpression of TH, PHOX2B, and MAGEA1 was associated with better event-free 
(EFS) and overall survival (OS). Survivin overexpression was associated with 
poor EFS but had no impact on OS. Multivariate analysis confirmed Survivin as 
independent marker for poor survival, and PHOX2B and MAGEA1 for better survival.
CONCLUSION: High expression of TH, PHOX2B, and MAGEA1 genes are favorable 
prognostic factors for OS and EFS, whereas high expression of Survivin is 
associated with an increased risk of relapse or progression.

Copyright 2023, International Institute of Anticancer Research.

DOI: 10.21873/cdp.10274
PMCID: PMC10619573
PMID: 37927813

Conflict of interest statement: The Authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare in relation to this study.


563. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2023 Nov 1;64(14):14. doi: 10.1167/iovs.64.14.14.

Cross-Platform Identification and Validation of Uveal Melanoma Vitreous Protein 
Biomarkers.

Velez G(1)(2), Wolf J(1)(2), Dufour A(3), Mruthyunjaya P(2), Mahajan 
VB(1)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Surgery Laboratory, Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, 
United States.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Byers Eye Institute, Stanford University, Palo 
Alto, California, United States.
(3)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Cumming School of Medicine, 
University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada.
(4)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, California, United 
States.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to profile protein expression liquid 
vitreous biopsies from patients with uveal melanoma (UM) using mass spectrometry 
to identify prognostic biomarkers, signaling pathways, and therapeutic targets.
METHODS: Vitreous biopsies were collected from two cohorts in a pilot study: 
comparative control eyes with epiretinal membranes (ERM; n = 3) and test eyes 
with UM (n = 8). Samples were analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Identified proteins were compared to data from a 
targeted multiplex ELISA proteomics platform.
RESULTS: A total of 69 significantly elevated proteins were detected in the UM 
vitreous, including LYVE-1. LC-MS/MS identified 62 significantly upregulated 
proteins in UM vitreous that were not previously identified by ELISA. Analysis 
of differential protein expression by tumor molecular classification (gene 
expression profiling [GEP] and preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma 
[PRAME]) further identified proteins that correlated with these classifications. 
Patients with high-risk GEP tumors displayed elevated vitreous expression of 
HGFR (fold-change [FC] = 2.66E + 03, P value = 0.003) and PYGL (FC = 1.02E + 04, 
P = 1.72E-08). Patients with PRAME positive tumors displayed elevated vitreous 
expression of ENPP-2 (FC = 3.21, P = 0.04), NEO1 (FC = 2.65E + 03, P = 0.002), 
and LRP1 (FC = 5.59E + 02, P value = 0.01). IGF regulatory effectors were highly 
represented (P value = 1.74E-16). Cross-platform analysis validated seven 
proteins identified by ELISA and LC-MS/MS.
CONCLUSIONS: Proteomic analysis of liquid biopsies may provide prognostic 
information supporting gene expression of tumor biopsies. The use of multiple 
protein detection platforms in the same patient samples increases the 
sensitivity of candidate biomarker detection and allows for precise 
characterization of the vitreous proteome.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.64.14.14
PMCID: PMC10653261
PMID: 37955612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: G. Velez, None; J. Wolf, None; A. 
Dufour, None; P. Mruthyunjaya, None; V.B. Mahajan, None


564. Diagnostics (Basel). 2023 Oct 26;13(21):3314. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics13213314.

Cancer Metastasis Prediction and Genomic Biomarker Identification through 
Machine Learning and eXplainable Artificial Intelligence in Breast Cancer 
Research.

Yagin B(1), Yagin FH(1), Colak C(1), Inceoglu F(2), Kadry S(3)(4)(5), Kim J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, Faculty of Medicine, 
Inonu University, Malatya 44280, Turkey.
(2)Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Medicine, Malatya Turgut Ozal 
University, Malatya 44090, Turkey.
(3)Department of applied Data science, Noroff University College, 4612 
Kristiansand, Norway.
(4)Artificial Intelligence Research Center (AIRC), Ajman University, Ajman 346, 
United Arab Emirates.
(5)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Lebanese American 
University, Byblos 36, Lebanon.
(6)Department of Software, Kongju National University, Cheonan 31080, Republic 
of Korea.

AIM: Method: This research presents a model combining machine learning (ML) 
techniques and eXplainable artificial intelligence (XAI) to predict breast 
cancer (BC) metastasis and reveal important genomic biomarkers in metastasis 
patients.
METHOD: A total of 98 primary BC samples was analyzed, comprising 34 samples 
from patients who developed distant metastases within a 5-year follow-up period 
and 44 samples from patients who remained disease-free for at least 5 years 
after diagnosis. Genomic data were then subjected to biostatistical analysis, 
followed by the application of the elastic net feature selection method. This 
technique identified a restricted number of genomic biomarkers associated with 
BC metastasis. A light gradient boosting machine (LightGBM), categorical 
boosting (CatBoost), Extreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), Gradient Boosting 
Trees (GBT), and Ada boosting (AdaBoost) algorithms were utilized for 
prediction. To assess the models' predictive abilities, the accuracy, F1 score, 
precision, recall, area under the ROC curve (AUC), and Brier score were 
calculated as performance evaluation metrics. To promote interpretability and 
overcome the "black box" problem of ML models, a SHapley Additive exPlanations 
(SHAP) method was employed.
RESULTS: The LightGBM model outperformed other models, yielding remarkable 
accuracy of 96% and an AUC of 99.3%. In addition to biostatistical evaluation, 
in XAI-based SHAP results, increased expression levels of TSPYL5, ATP5E, CA9, 
NUP210, SLC37A1, ARIH1, PSMD7, UBQLN1, PRAME, and UBE2T (p ≤ 0.05) were found to 
be associated with an increased incidence of BC metastasis. Finally, decreased 
levels of expression of CACTIN, TGFB3, SCUBE2, ARL4D, OR1F1, ALDH4A1, PHF1, and 
CROCC (p ≤ 0.05) genes were also determined to increase the risk of metastasis 
in BC.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this study may prevent disease progression and 
metastases and potentially improve clinical outcomes by recommending customized 
treatment approaches for BC patients.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics13213314
PMCID: PMC10650093
PMID: 37958210

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


565. Am J Surg Pathol. 2023 Nov 16. doi: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000002153. Online
ahead  of print.

Divergent Lineage Markers in Anaplastic Thyroid Carcinoma.

Mneimneh WS(1)(2), Asa SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center, Case 
Western Reserve University.
(2)The Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH.

Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) often results from dedifferentiation of 
differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC), and the diagnosis is not difficult, as 
the tumor is seen to progress from a recognized DTC. However, in some cases, the 
diagnosis based on biopsy of limited tissue or resection of a completely 
undifferentiated tumor relies on immunohistochemical biomarkers and is usually a 
diagnosis of exclusion. To examine the biomarker profile of ATC and to determine 
whether divergent lineage markers can complicate this process, we examined the 
expression of a number of biomarkers in a series of ATCs. Cases retrieved from 
the department laboratory information system were included if there was evidence 
of an accurate diagnosis based on the presence of a coexisting or antecedent DTC 
or in cases where the immunoprofile was consistent with thyroid origin in a 
non-equivocal clinical setting. Questionable cases were excluded. We identified 
36 cases for analysis. Tissue sections were stained for PAX8, TTF1, BRAFV600E, 
NRASQ61R, TRK, and p53, as well as p40, CDX2, SATB2, GATA3, CD117, CD163, SALL4, 
SMARCA4, PRAME, SOX10, ERG and HEPPAR1. As expected, all 36 ATCs were negative 
for TTF1 except for one showing focal, weak expression. Thirteen expressed PAX8 
with variable intensity. BRAFV600E was positive in 10/34 tumors and equivocal in 
3; NRASQ61R was positive in 12, and TRK was positive in 1 case. Staining for p53 
was diffusely positive in 14 and completely negative in 19, with only 3 cases 
showing a wild-type pattern. We found aberrant expression of GATA3 in 11/36 
cases, SATB2 in 8/36, CD117 in 2/35, and SALL4 in 1/30. CD163 expression was 
identified in tumor cells in 10/30 cases with variable intensity; in the other 
tumors, interpretation was obscured by abundant histiocytes. P40 was positive in 
5 cases with squamoid morphology. CDX2 was negative in 35 tested cases. PRAME 
was identified in 1 of 33 cases. Stains for SOX10, ERG, and HEPPAR1 were 
negative in 33 cases. Twenty tested cases showed retained SMARCA4 expression. We 
conclude that ATCs express a number of divergent lineage markers that can cause 
diagnostic dilemmas, as they are also features of other tumors in the 
differential diagnosis of high-grade midline neck malignancies.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000002153
PMID: 37972932

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest and Source of Funding: The 
authors have disclosed that they have no significant relationships with, or 
financial interest in, any commercial companies pertaining to this article.


566. Am J Dermatopathol. 2023 Nov 14. doi: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002556. Online
ahead  of print.

Melanocytic Neoplasm With KIT and APC Mutations: A New Subtype of Melanocytoma?

Donati M(1), Grossmann P(2), Mansour B(3), Kazakov DV(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario Campus 
Bio-Medico, Rome, Italy.
(2)Sikl's Department of Pathology, Medical Faculty in Pilsen, Charles University 
in Prague, Pilsen, Czech Republic.
(3)Ospedale Israelitico di Roma, Roma, Italy; and.
(4)IDP Institut für Dermatohistopathologie, Pathologie Institut Enge, Zürich, 
Switzerland.

We report a very unusual case of melanocytic neoplasm appearing clinically as a 
0.5-cm dome-shaped pigmented papule on the chest of a 63-year-old man. 
Microscopically, it was an asymmetric, entirely dermally based neoplasm 
characterized by a multinodular, vaguely plexiform architecture composed of 
moderately pleomorphic spindled melanocytes with ample, dusty pigmented 
cytoplasm and scattered multinucleated cells. The tumor cells were strongly 
positive for Melan-A, HMB45, S100, and PRAME, whereas p16 showed diffuse nuclear 
loss. β-catenin presented a strong and diffuse cytoplasmic staining, while 
nuclei were negative. Despite an increased cellularity, mitotic count was low 
(1/mm2). Fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed no copy number alteration 
in melanoma-related genes (CDKN2A, MYB, MYC, CCND1 and RREB1). DNA and RNA 
sequencing identified KIT c.2458G>T and APC c.6709C>T mutations. No further 
genetic alteration was detected including TERT-promoter (TERT-p) hot-spot 
mutation. A re-excision was performed. A sentinel lymph node biopsy was 
negative. Clinical investigations revealed no extracutaneous involvement. The 
patient is disease-free after a follow-up period of 8 months. Given the peculiar 
morphologic and molecular findings, we hypothesize the lesion may represent a 
novel subtype of an intermediate grade melanocytic tumor (melanocytoma).

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002556
PMID: 37982490

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


567. Am J Dermatopathol. 2024 Jan 1;46(1):21-30. doi:
10.1097/DAD.0000000000002584.

Pitfalls of PRAME Immunohistochemistry in a Large Series of Melanocytic and 
Nonmelanocytic Lesions With Literature Review.

Turner N(1), Ko CJ(1)(2), McNiff JM(1)(2), Galan A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Yale University, New Haven, CT; and.
(2)Department of Pathology, Yale University, New Haven, CT.

Preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) immunohistochemistry is 
currently used to facilitate distinction of benign and malignant melanocytic 
proliferations. We hypothesized that evaluation of 1 institution's experience 
with PRAME labeling in a large number of consecutive cases might elucidate 
additional strengths and potential pitfalls and reveal base rates of positivity 
versus negativity in 1 academic practice. Pathology reports for all specimens on 
which PRAME labeling was performed at our institution between January 2021 and 
May 2022 were retrieved from our database. Eighty percent of conventional 
malignant melanomas were labeled diffusely positive with PRAME; there were no 
significant differences in mean age, sex, site, Breslow depth, ulceration 
status, or American Joint Committee on Cancer pathological tumor stage when 
comparing diffusely PRAME-positive malignant melanomas with those that lack 
diffuse labeling. Although no banal melanocytic nevi were labeled with PRAME, 
13% of dysplastic nevi were diffusely PRAME positive, with junctional 
proliferations, severe atypia, male gender, and older age being associated with 
PRAME positivity. As some but not all ambiguous melanocytic lesions in which 
malignancy could not be excluded based on morphology alone were diffusely PRAME 
positive, PRAME's accuracy in predicting malignancy remains unclear to the 
authors; further study is needed to assess the precision to which PRAME 
immunohistochemistry can separate benign borderline lesions from their malignant 
counterparts. Among nonmelanocytic lesions, some poorly differentiated tumors, 
including atypical fibroxanthomas, can be PRAME positive. This series 
underscores the importance of clinicopathologic correlation and shows that 
diffuse PRAME positivity is highest in conventional malignant melanomas (∼80%, 
or 8 of 10 lesions), is seen in about half of challenging borderline lesions at 
our institution, and can be observed in lesions diagnosed as dysplastic nevi by 
our group (∼10% or 1 in 10 lesions), as well as in rare poorly differentiated 
malignancies.

Copyright © 2023 Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0000000000002584
PMID: 37982498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


568. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2023 Nov 20. doi: 10.1111/jog.15832. Online ahead of 
print.

Pigmented epithelioid melanocytoma arising from a teratoma of a Carney complex 
patient.

Ichiki T(1)(2), Ito T(1), Oishi H(3), Kato K(3), Oda Y(2), Nakahara T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(2)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.

A 25-year-old female Carney complex patient with a PRKAR1A mutation who had 
undergone surgery to remove teratomas visited our dermatology department. She 
was suspected of having a malignant melanoma in a teratoma. On clinical 
examination, a black nodule was found within the cyst. On histopathological 
examination, the black lesion was composed of heavily pigmented round cells with 
vesicular nuclei and single prominent nucleoli. Additionally, there were large 
cells with irregularly shaped nuclei. Upon immunohistochemical examination, the 
large, irregularly shaped cells were positively stained with Melan A, HMB45, 
S-100 protein, SOX10, CD10 (focally), and BRAFV600E , but negatively stained 
with PRAME. Based on the histopathological features, we diagnosed the patient 
with pigmented epithelioid melanocytoma (PEM) in a teratoma of a Carney complex 
patient. This is the first case of PEM developing from a teratoma. Since PEM 
lesions may spread to regional lymph nodes, careful follow-up is necessary.

© 2023 Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1111/jog.15832
PMID: 37985470


569. Pathology. 2023 Nov 1:S0031-3025(23)00282-9. doi:
10.1016/j.pathol.2023.09.009.  Online ahead of print.

Expression of Melan-A in cutaneous granular cell tumours: a diagnostic pitfall.

Van Winden VI(1), Wong DD(2), Wood BA(2), Filion P(1), Harvey NT(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomical Pathology, PathWest Laboratory Medicine, QEII 
Medical Centre, Nedlands, WA, Australia.
(2)Department of Anatomical Pathology, PathWest Laboratory Medicine, QEII 
Medical Centre, Nedlands, WA, Australia; School of Medicine, The University of 
Western Australia, Crawley, WA, Australia.
(3)Department of Anatomical Pathology, PathWest Laboratory Medicine, QEII 
Medical Centre, Nedlands, WA, Australia; School of Medicine, The University of 
Western Australia, Crawley, WA, Australia. Electronic address: 
nathan.harvey@health.wa.gov.au.

Morphological overlap exists between cutaneous granular cell tumours (GCT) and 
malignant melanoma, with the melanocyte-specific markers HMB45 and Melan-A 
commonly used to support the diagnosis of melanoma. We recently encountered 
several cases of GCT in our practice showing strong expression of Melan-A. The 
aim of this study was to establish the prevalence of positive 
immunohistochemical staining for Melan-A and HMB45 in a series of unequivocal 
GCTs. We also aimed to assess the prevalence of staining for PRAME 
(PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma), a marker expressed in >80% of 
primary melanomas as well as many non-melanocytic tumours. A total of 20 
cutaneous/subcutaneous GCTs were evaluated using Melan-A, HMB45 and PRAME 
immunohistochemistry. Staining for Melan-A and HMB45 was scored using a 
semiquantitative scale from 0 (absent) to 3+ (staining present in >50% of tumour 
cells). PRAME expression was recorded as either positive (>75% of cell nuclei 
staining) or negative. Melan-A expression was observed in four GCTs (20%), with 
strong and diffuse (3+) staining seen in two cases (10%), both from anogenital 
areas. Weak patchy nuclear PRAME expression was seen in every case, interpreted 
to be negative. HMB45 was also negative in all cases (100%). Our study 
demonstrates that Melan-A expression can be strong and diffuse in a subset of 
otherwise unequivocal cutaneous GCTs, which may cause diagnostic confusion with 
malignant melanoma. HMB45 and PRAME did not stain any of the GCTs in our series.

Copyright © 2023 Royal College of Pathologists of Australasia. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pathol.2023.09.009
PMID: 37989630


570. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2023 Nov 23:llad405. doi: 10.1093/ced/llad405. Online
ahead  of print.

Combined WNT-activated deep penetrating/plexiform melanocytoma: insights into 
clinicopathological and molecular characterization.

Castillo P(1)(2)(3), Castrejon N(1)(2), Marginet M(1), Massi D(4), Alamon F(5), 
Teixido C(1)(2)(3), Montironi C(1), Garcia-Herrera A(1)(2)(3), Albero R(1), 
Matas J(6), Puig S(3)(4), Alos L(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology, Hospital Clinic of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)University of Barcelona.  Barcelona, Spain.
(3)August Pi i Sunyer Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Section of Anatomical Pathology. Department of Health Sciences, University of 
Florence. Florence, Italy.
(5)Departments of Dermatology, Hospital Clinic of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Departments of Opthamology, Hospital Clinic of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: A combined deep penetrating tumor redefined as WNT-activated deep 
penetrating/plexiform melanocytoma (DPM), may pose challenging clinical and 
histological diagnoses.
OBJECTIVES: This study aims to review the clinicopathological characteristics of 
combined DPMs and characterize the molecular profile of atypical and malignant 
forms.
METHODS: The study included 51 cases of combined DPMs diagnosed at the Hospital 
Clinic of Barcelona and the University of Florence between 2012 and 2020. 
Clinical data, dermoscopy images (when available), and histological 
characteristics were reviewed. Immunohistochemistry for β-catenin, LEF1, HMB45, 
Ki67, p16, and PRAME was performed. Atypical forms underwent NGS panel analysis, 
including driver genes implicated in DPMs, TERT- promoter (p) mutation, and the 
investigation of the 9p21 locus via FISH.
RESULTS: Among the 51 cases (32 females and 19 males, age range 4- 74), 68% with 
available clinical data were initially suspected of melanoma. Except for one 
case, complete excision resulted in no recurrences or metastases. One 
incompletely excised combined DPM developed a lymph node melanoma metastasis 
10 years later. Ten cases (20%) showed atypical histological features; 7 cases 
(13%) exhibited a significant loss of p16 expression; and 2 cases (4%) showed a 
high-proliferative index (Ki67 over 5%). NGS analysis in these cases revealed a 
double mutation BRAFV600E and exon 3 CTNNB1; no TERT-p mutations were detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinical suspicion of melanoma is common in combined DPMs, but the 
malignant progression is infrequent in tumors lacking high-grade atypia or 
proliferation. These findings are congruent with the consideration of these 
lesions as intermediate-grade tumors or melanocytomas.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of British 
Association of Dermatologists. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ced/llad405
PMID: 37995304


571. Front Immunol. 2023 Oct 31;14:1297180. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1297180. 
eCollection 2023.

Multi-omics analyses unravel DNA damage repair-related clusters in breast cancer 
with experimental validation.

Liu P(#)(1), Deng X(#)(1), Zhou H(#)(2), Xie J(1), Kong Y(1), Zou Y(1), Yang 
A(1), Li X(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Guangdong Provincial 
Clinical Research Center for Cancer, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, 
Guangzhou, China.
(2)The Affiliated Nanhua Hospital, Hengyang Medical School, University of South 
China, Hengyang, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: As one of the most common malignancies worldwide, breast cancer (BC) 
exhibits high heterogeneity of molecular phenotypes. The evolving view regarding 
DNA damage repair (DDR) is that it is context-specific and heterogeneous, but 
its role in BC remains unclear.
METHODS: Multi-dimensional data of transcriptomics, genomics, and single-cell 
transcriptome profiling were obtained to characterize the DDR-related features 
of BC. We collected 276 DDR-related genes based on the Molecular Signature 
Database (MSigDB) database and previous studies. We acquired public datasets 
included the SCAN-B dataset (GEO: GSE96058), METABRIC database, and TCGA-BRCA 
database. Corresponding repositories such as transcriptomics, genomics, and 
clinical information were also downloaded. We selected scRNA-seq data from GEO: 
GSE176078, GSE114727, GSE161529, and GSE158724. Bulk RNA-seq data from GEO: 
GSE176078, GSE18728, GSE5462, GSE20181, and GSE130788 were extracted for 
independent analyses.
RESULTS: The DDR classification was constructed in the SCAN-B dataset (GEO: 
GSE96058) and METABRIC database, Among BC patients, there were two clusters with 
distinct clinical and molecular characteristics: the DDR-suppressed cluster and 
the DDR-active cluster. A superior survival rate is found for tumors in the 
DDR-suppressed cluster, while those with the DDR-activated cluster tend to have 
inferior prognoses and clinically aggressive behavior. The DDR classification 
was validated in the TCGA-BRCA cohort and shown similar results. We also found 
that two clusters have different pathway activities at the genomic level. Based 
on the intersection of the different expressed genes among these cohorts, we 
found that PRAME might play a vital role in DDR. The DDR classification was then 
enabled by establishing a DDR score, which was verified through multilayer 
cohort analysis. Furthermore, our results revealed that malignant cells 
contributed more to the DDR score at the single-cell level than nonmalignant 
cells. Particularly, immune cells with immunosuppressive properties (such as 
FOXP3+ CD4+ T cells) displayed higher DDR scores among those with 
distinguishable characteristics.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, this study performs general analyses of DDR 
heterogeneity in BC and provides insight into the understanding of 
individualized molecular and clinicopathological mechanisms underlying unique 
DDR profiles.

Copyright © 2023 Liu, Deng, Zhou, Xie, Kong, Zou, Yang and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1297180
PMCID: PMC10644223
PMID: 38022619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The author(s) declared that 
they were an editorial board member of Frontiers, at the time of submission. 
This had no impact on the peer review process and the final decision.


572. Oncogene. 2023 Nov 29. doi: 10.1038/s41388-023-02887-0. Online ahead of
print.

PRAME induces genomic instability in uveal melanoma.

Kurtenbach S(#)(1)(2)(3), Sanchez MI(#)(1)(2)(3), Kuznetsoff J(1)(2)(3), 
Rodriguez DA(1)(2)(3), Weich N(2), Dollar JJ(1)(2)(3), Cruz A(1)(2)(3), 
Kurtenbach S(1)(2)(3), Field MG(4), Durante MA(1)(2)(3), Decatur C(1)(2)(3), 
Sorouri M(#)(5), Lai F(6), Yenisehirli G(1)(2)(3), Fang B(7), Shiekhattar R(2), 
Pelaez D(1)(2)(3), Correa ZM(1)(2)(3), Verdun RE(2), Harbour JW(8).

Author information:
(1)Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, 
Miami, FL, USA.
(2)Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.
(3)Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.
(4)Minnesota Eye Consultants, Bloomington, MN, USA.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology and Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA.
(6)School of Life Sciences, Yunnan University, Kunming, China.
(7)Proteomics and Metabolomics Core, The Moffitt Cancer Center and Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL, USA.
(8)Department of Ophthalmology and Simmons Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, Dallas, TX, USA. 
William.Harbour@utsouthwestern.edu.
(#)Contributed equally

Update of
    Res Sq. 2023 Apr 26;:

PRAME is a CUL2 ubiquitin ligase subunit that is normally expressed in the 
testis but becomes aberrantly overexpressed in many cancer types in association 
with aneuploidy and metastasis. Here, we show that PRAME is expressed 
predominantly in spermatogonia around the time of meiotic crossing-over in 
coordination with genes mediating DNA double strand break repair. Expression of 
PRAME in somatic cells upregulates pathways involved in meiosis, chromosome 
segregation and DNA repair, and it leads to increased DNA double strand breaks, 
telomere dysfunction and aneuploidy in neoplastic and non-neoplastic cells. This 
effect is mediated at least in part by ubiquitination of SMC1A and altered 
cohesin function. PRAME expression renders cells susceptible to inhibition of 
PARP1/2, suggesting increased dependence on alternative base excision repair 
pathways. These findings reveal a distinct oncogenic function of PRAME that can 
be targeted therapeutically in cancer.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41388-023-02887-0
PMID: 38030788


573. J Cutan Pathol. 2023 Nov 29. doi: 10.1111/cup.14565. Online ahead of print.

Atypical Spitz tumor with SQSTM1::NTRK2 fusion: Report of a case with unique 
spindled cell features.

Phillips GS(1), Mengden-Koon S(1), Dhossche J(1), LeBoit PE(2), Goldstein AM(3), 
Lee I(4), Raffeld M(4), Papanicolau-Sengos A(4), Sargen MR(3), Chung J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, 
Oregon, USA.
(2)Dermatopathology and Oral Pathology Service, Department of Pathology, 
University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.
(3)Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, 
National Institutes of Health, Rockville, Maryland, USA.
(4)Laboratory of Pathology, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

A host of signature genetic alterations have been demonstrated in Spitz 
neoplasms, most notably fusions of kinase genes (including BRAF, ALK, ROS1, 
NTRK1, NTRK3, RET, MET, MAP3K8) or variants in HRAS. While there are multiple 
reports of rearrangements involving NTRK1 and NTRK3 in Spitz tumors, there are 
very few reports of NTRK2-rearranged Spitz nevi in the literature. This report 
presents an NTRK2-rearranged atypical Spitz tumor with spindled cell features. 
The patient was a 6-year-old female with a growing pigmented papule on the back. 
Histopathological evaluation revealed an asymmetric, biphasic, compound 
proliferation of melanocytes featuring an epithelioid cell population arranged 
as variably sized nests and single cells along the basal layer with extension 
down adnexa, as well as a population of spindled melanocytes with desmoplastic 
features and loss of Melan-A expression in the dermis. There was partial loss of 
p16 expression in the epidermal component and diffuse loss in the dermal 
component. Immunohistochemistry for PRAME, ALK, NTRK1, HRAS Q61R, p53, and BRAF 
V600E were negative. A SQSTM1::NTRK2 fusion was identified by RNA sequencing. No 
TERT promoter hotspot variants were detected. This case report expands the known 
histopathologic spectrum of genetic alterations in Spitz neoplasms.

© 2023 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cup.14565
PMID: 38031352


574. Heliyon. 2023 Nov 11;9(11):e22258. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e22258. 
eCollection 2023 Nov.

Identification and validation of M2 macrophage-related genes in endometriosis.

Ding H(1), Xu H(1), Zhang T(1), Shi C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, The Affiliated Huai'an No. 1 
People's Hospital of Nanjing Medical University, Huai'an, Jiangsu 223300, PR 
China.

AIMS: M2 macrophage is believed to play an important role in the development of 
endometriosis. This study aimed to identify several key genes related to the M2 
macrophage in endometriosis.
METHOD: Differential expressed genes between endometriosis and non-endometriosis 
were identified based on three microarray datasets from the Gene Expression 
Omnibus database. Gene modules significantly associated with M2 macrophage were 
identified from the weighted gene co-expression network analysis. Furthermore, 
by intersecting the differential expressed genes and M2 macrophage-associated 
module genes, M2 macrophage-related genes in endometriosis were identified. 
Functional analyses of the Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and 
Genomes for these genes were then performed. Following, the least absolute 
shrinkage and selection operator, random forest, and receiver operating 
characteristic curves were further conducted to identify the key M2 
macrophage-related genes in endometriosis. Finally, the expressions of key genes 
in endometriosis, as well as their correlations with M2 macrophages were 
verified in an independent validation cohort.
RESULTS: Totally, 185 M2 macrophage-related genes were identified, and they were 
mainly enriched in functions associated with the cell cycle, oocyte maturation, 
and immune response. Following machine learning algorithms, eight key genes were 
selected in the endometriosis: PGR, OLFM4, PIP5K1B, CCNA1, BRIP1, CADM1, PRAME, 
and GCNT1. The eight key genes were confirmed to be negative with M2 macrophage 
infiltration levels. Furthermore, the expression levels of these genes were 
significantly lower in the middle secretory stage while relevantly higher in the 
proliferative stage. The validation analysis also showed similar outcomes with 
the above results.
CONCLUSION: Eight M2 macrophage-related genes were identified as potential 
biomarkers of endometriosis, providing novel understanding of immune cells in 
the endometriosis.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e22258
PMCID: PMC10695979
PMID: 38058639

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


575. Per Med. 2024 Jan;21(1):21-27. doi: 10.2217/pme-2023-0110. Epub 2023 Dec 7.

Diagnostic utility of the 23-gene expression profile test for an atypical 
intradermal melanocytic proliferation.

Marks E(1), Badia AA(2), Goldberg MS(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatopathology, Kansas City University-Graduate Medical 
Education Consortium/Advanced Dermatology & Cosmetic Surgery, Oviedo, FL 32765, 
USA.
(2)Advanced Dermatology & Cosmetic Surgery, Fort Myers, FL 33907, USA.
(3)Castle Biosciences, Inc., Friendswood, TX 77546, USA.
(4)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Ancillary tests such as immunohistochemistry (IHC) and gene expression profile 
(GEP) testing may be needed to arrive at a definitive diagnosis for some 
atypical melanocytic neoplasms. A 34-year-old male with a family history of 
melanoma presented with a large, heterogeneous melanocytic lesion on the cheek. 
Histopathological review of two biopsies revealed an atypical intradermal 
melanocytic proliferation with spitzoid features without ulceration or 
regression. Scattered mitotic figures were identified. In addition to performing 
SOX10 IHC, PRAME and HMB45 staining highlighted weak, patchy positivity that was 
stronger in superficial, pleomorphic melanocytes (Ki-67, 5-7% mitotic rate). 
Based on these concerning but ambiguous IHC results and lingering concern for 
melanoma reiterated by other consulting dermatopathologists, the 23-GEP was 
requested for both specimens, which both returned a malignant result. The 
inconclusive histopathological features of malignancy were resolved by 23-GEP 
testing, facilitating a final diagnosis of malignant melanoma (pT3a, 2.5 mm 
Breslow depth, Clark's level IV).

DOI: 10.2217/pme-2023-0110
PMID: 38059357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Int J Gynecol Pathol. 2023 Dec 6. doi: 10.1097/PGP.0000000000001004. Online 
ahead of print.

PRAME Immunohistochemistry for Distinguishing Vulvar and Vaginal Melanoma From 
Benign Melanocytic Nevi.

Martin SD, Martin KC, Gilks CB, Crawford RI, Hoang LN.

Vulvovaginal melanoma (VVM) is a rare but deadly disease, accounting for 5% of 
all vulvar malignancies, with a 5-yr survival rate of only 47% for all stages of 
the disease. VVM is a distinct subset of melanoma, with a unique genomic profile 
and underlying pathogenesis unassociated with sun exposure. Distinguishing these 
rare malignancies from very common pigmented lesions of the vulva and vagina is 
challenging as histologic features often overlap between entities. 
PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) is a melanoma-associated 
protein, and immunohistochemistry (IHC) for PRAME distinguishes cutaneous, oral 
mucosal, and retinal melanoma from atypical nevi. Given the biological 
differences between VVM and cutaneous melanoma, the utility of PRAME IHC for the 
diagnosis of VVM is unknown. We accrued a cohort of 20 VVM and 21 benign vulvar 
melanocytic nevi. We found that nuclear PRAME IHC staining with 4+ intensity was 
present in 85% of the VVM and 0% of the nevi. With the assistance of PRAME IHC, 
we found evidence of close or positive margin involvement in 3 of 10 cases where 
margins were originally diagnosed as negative for melanoma in situ. Our study is 
the first to assess PRAME IHC in a cohort of VVM cases and provides confidence 
for using PRAME IHC to assist with diagnosis and margin assessment in this rare 
disease.

Copyright © 2023 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.

DOI: 10.1097/PGP.0000000000001004
PMID: 38085951

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


577. Int J Gynecol Pathol. 2023 Nov 13. doi: 10.1097/PGP.0000000000000959. Online
 ahead of print.

PReferentially Expressed Antigen in MElanoma Expression in Uterine and Ovarian 
Carcinosarcomas.

Alrohaibani A, Yu Y, Gao L, McLean KM, Hetts J, Saglam O.

Carcinosarcoma (CS) is an aggressive form of gynecologic malignancy that 
accounts for ~5% of carcinomas in the endometrium and ovaries. There has been no 
significant improvement in survival over the last decades despite additional 
treatment options. PReferentially Expressed Antigen in MElanoma (PRAME) is an 
immunotherapy target used for the treatment of several solid tumors. We explored 
the PRAME protein expression levels in ovarian and uterine CS (n = 29). The 
expression levels were recorded by H-score (percentage of positively stained 
cells multiplied by staining intensity) in carcinomatous and sarcomatous 
components separately and compared by paired t-test. The marker expression 
levels of ovarian and uterine CS were tested against each other in the CS group. 
Sarcoma-predominant samples (>50% of the sampled tissue) were compared with 
samples without predominant sarcomatous components by a 2-sample pooled t-test. 
In addition, high-grade carcinomatous components of CS samples were tested 
against low-grade endometrioid carcinoma (International Federation of Gynecology 
and Obstetrics grades 1 and 2; n = 13), and sarcomatous components against 
uterine leiomyosarcoma (n = 14). There was no significant difference between any 
subgroups except for sarcomatous elements of CS and leiomyosarcoma (P < 0.001). 
A weak positive correlation was found between H-scores of carcinomatous and 
sarcomatous components (P = 0.062, r = 0.36). In the ovarian CS group, there was 
a moderate inverse correlation between age and the mean H-score of the 
carcinomatous component (r = -0.683, P = 0.02). Our results further support 
PRAME overexpression in gynecologic cancers, including CS with similar 
expression levels in epithelial and mesenchymal components. PRAME might have a 
role in epithelial-mesenchymal transition in this group of cancers.

Copyright © 2023 by the International Society of Gynecological Pathologists.

DOI: 10.1097/PGP.0000000000000959
PMID: 38085958

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


578. Virchows Arch. 2023 Dec 14. doi: 10.1007/s00428-023-03698-0. Online ahead of
 print.

Molecular and histopathological characterization of seminoma patients with 
highly elevated human chorionic gonadotropin levels in the serum.

Seidel C(1), Paulsen FO(2), Nestler T(3), Cathomas R(4), Hentrich M(5), 
Paffenholz P(6), Bokemeyer C(2), Heidenreich A(#)(6)(7), Nettersheim D(#)(8), 
Bremmer F(#)(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Hematology and Stem Cell Transplantation With 
Division of Pneumology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Martinistraße 52, 20246, Hamburg, Germany. c.seidel@uke.de.
(2)Department of Oncology, Hematology and Stem Cell Transplantation With 
Division of Pneumology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Martinistraße 52, 20246, Hamburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Urology, Federal Armed Forces Hospital Koblenz, Koblenz, 
Germany.
(4)Division of Oncology/Hematology, Kantonsspital Graubünden, Chur, Switzerland.
(5)Red Cross Hospital Munich, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(6)Department of Urology, Uro-Oncology, Robot-Assisted and Specialized Urologic 
Surgery, University of Cologne Faculty of Medicine and University Hospital 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(7)Department of Urology, Medical University Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(8)Department of Urology, Urological Research Laboratory, Translational 
UroOncology, Medical Faculty and University Hospital Düsseldorf, Heinrich Heine 
University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(9)Institute of Pathology, University Medical Center, Göttingen, Germany.
(#)Contributed equally

Approximately 30% of seminoma (SEM) patients present with moderately elevated 
human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) levels at first diagnosis. In case of high 
hCG serum levels, the presence of a non-SEM component, i.e. choriocarcinoma 
(CC), may be assumed. To characterize cases described as pure seminoma with high 
serum hCG levels, tissue samples and DNA were analyzed. Patient files from an 
international registry were screened for patients with SEM and extraordinarily 
high hCG serum levels. IHC and qRT-PCR analysis was performed for markers of 
SEM, embryonal carcinoma (EC) and CC/trophoblast cells. The cell lines TCam-2 
(SEM), 2102EP, NCCIT, NT2/D1 (EC) and JAR, JEG3 and BeWo (CC) were included for 
comparison. Of 1031 SEM patients screened, 39 patients (3.7%) showed hCG serum 
levels > 1000 U/l. Of these, tumor material for IHC and RNA for qRT-PCR was 
available from n = 7 patients and n = 3 patients, respectively. Median 
pre-orchiectomy serum hCG level was 5356 U/l (range: 1224-40909 U/L). 
Histopathologically, all investigated samples were classified as SEM with 
syncytiotrophoblast sub-populations. SEM cells were SALL4+ / OCT3/4+ / D2-40+, 
while syncytiotrophoblast cells were hCG+ / GATA3+ / p63+ and SOX2-/CDX2-. 
qRT-PCR analysis detected trophoblast stem cell markers CDX2, EOMES and TFAP2C 
as well as the trophectoderm-specifier TEAD4, but not GATA3. Additionally, SOX17 
and PRAME, but not SOX2, were detected, confirming the pure SEM-like gene 
expression signature of the analyzed samples. In conclusion, excessively 
increased hCG serum levels can appear in patients with pure SEM. To explain 
detectable hCG serum levels, it is important to diagnose the subtype of a SEM 
with syncytiotrophoblasts.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-023-03698-0
PMID: 38097681


579. Virchows Arch. 2023 Dec 19. doi: 10.1007/s00428-023-03720-5. Online ahead of
 print.

Shedding light on PRAME expression in dysplastic nevi: a cohort study.

Innocenti L(1), Scarpitta R(1), Corraro S(1), Ortenzi V(2), Bonadio AG(2), 
Loggini B(2), De Ieso K(2), Naccarato AG(1)(2), Fanelli GN(1)(2)(3), Scatena 
C(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pathology, Department of Translational Research and New 
Technologies in Medicine and Surgery, University of Pisa, 56126, Pisa, Italy.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Pisa University Hospital, 56126, Pisa, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine, New 
York, NY, 10021, USA.
(4)Division of Pathology, Department of Translational Research and New 
Technologies in Medicine and Surgery, University of Pisa, 56126, Pisa, Italy. 
cristian.scatena@unipi.it.
(5)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Pisa University Hospital, 56126, Pisa, 
Italy. cristian.scatena@unipi.it.

Dysplastic nevi represent one of the least agreed-upon entities in 
dermatopathology despite the existence of established criteria. This study 
explores preferentially expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME) in dysplastic 
nevi, an uncharted area. We examined 22 common melanocytic nevi (CMN), 20 
cutaneous melanomas (CM), 48 low-grade dysplastic nevi (LG-DN), and 40 
high-grade dysplastic nevi (HG-DN). PRAME was immunohistochemically assessed 
using a five-tiered system (0 to 4 +). Among CMN, 59% scored 0, 32% scored 1 + , 
and 9% scored 2 + . CM had score 2 + and 4 + in 11% and 89% of cases, 
respectively. Among LG-DN, 38% presented score 0, 31% score 1 + , 17% score 
2 + , 8% score 3 + , and 6% score 4 + . Thirty per cent of HG-DN demonstrated a 
score 0, 30% with score 1 + , 15% score 2 + , 10% score 3 + , and 15% score 
4 + . Compared to CMN and CM, LG-DN and HG-DN showed heterogeneous expression 
profiles of PRAME. PRAME positivity effectively distinguished HG-DN from CM with 
85% specificity and 80% sensitivity (p < 0.0001). Predictive values were 87% 
(negative) and 76% (positive). Furthermore, a trend of increased PRAME 
expression from LG-DN to HG-DN was observed. However, the applicability of PRAME 
in the differential diagnosis of dysplastic lesions remains unclear as can yield 
conflicting results with morphology, which remains the primary diagnostic tool 
for melanocytic lesions.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, 
part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-023-03720-5
PMID: 38112793


580. Can J Ophthalmol. 2023 Dec 16:S0008-4182(23)00365-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcjo.2023.11.013. Online ahead of print.

Correlation of PRAME immunohistochemistry with PRAME status on gene expression 
profiling in enucleated uveal melanoma.

Vizcaino MA(1), Dalvin LA(1), Salomao DR(2).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.
(2)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.. Electronic address: salomao.diva@mayo.edu.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2023.11.013
PMID: 38114062


581. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2023 Dec 15;19(3):2290356. doi: 
10.1080/21645515.2023.2290356. Epub 2023 Dec 19.

Autologous engineered T cell receptor therapy in advanced cancer.

Tsimberidou AM(1), Baysal MA(1), Chakraborty A(1), Andersson BS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics, The University of Texas MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(2)Department of Stem Cell Transplantation and Cellular Therapy, The University 
of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.

To overcome challenges associated with adoptive cell therapy (ACT), we developed 
a personalized autologous T-cell therapy program. Patients with advanced cancer 
with HLA-A *02:01 allele and tumor expression of PRAME, MAGEA1, MAGEA4, MAGEA8, 
NY-ESO-1, COL6A3 exon 6, MXRA5, and/or MMP1 underwent leukapheresis and T-cell 
product manufacturing. Patients received lymphodepletion, IMA101 infusion and 
interleukin 2 for 14 days. Of 214 screened patients, 14 were treated (6, IMA101; 
8, IMA101 and atezolizumab). The most common adverse events were cytokine 
release syndrome (G1, n = 6; G2, n = 4) and cytopenia. At 6 weeks, 12 (85.7%) 
patients had stable disease. Three patients had prolonged disease stabilization 
for 12.9, 7.3, and 13.7 months, respectively. The median progression-free 
survival and overall survival were 3.4 months and 9.4 months, respectively. 
Target-specific T cells expanded to constitute up to 78.7% of CD8+ cells. In 
conclusion, IMA101 was feasible and well tolerated, leveraging the potential of 
multi-targeted ACT that warrants further investigation.

DOI: 10.1080/21645515.2023.2290356
PMCID: PMC10732691
PMID: 38114231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A.M.T. declares receipt of clinical trial 
research funding (to The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center) from 
Agenus, OBI Pharma, Parker Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy, Tachyon, Orionis, 
Tempus and Tvardi, Novocure and IMMATICS; fees for consulting or advisory roles 
for Avstera Therapeutics, Bioeclipse, BrYet, Diaccurate, Macrogenics, NEX-I and 
VinceRx; and travel expenses from ASCO, Cancer Care Crossroads, GenomeWeb 
conference and Precision Medicine World Conference. The other authors declare no 
relevant competing interests.


582. Diagnostics (Basel). 2023 Dec 10;13(24):3636. doi:
10.3390/diagnostics13243636.

Expression of Preferentially Expressed Antigen in Melanoma, a Cancer/Testis 
Antigen, in Carcinoma In Situ of the Urinary Tract.

Fujii S(1), Ishida M(1), Komura K(2)(3), Nishimura K(2), Tsujino T(2), Saito 
T(4), Taniguchi Y(4), Murakawa T(4), Azuma H(2), Hirose Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Osaka Medical and Pharmaceutical University, 2-7, 
Daigaku-machi, Takatsuki City 569-8686, Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Urology, Osaka Medical and Pharmaceutical University, 2-7, 
Daigaku-machi, Takatsuki City 569-8686, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Translational Research Program, Osaka Medical and Pharmaceutical University, 
2-7, Daigaku-machi, Takatsuki City 569-8686, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Kansai Medical University, 2-5-1, Shinmachi, 
Hirakata 573-1010, Osaka, Japan.

Carcinoma in situ (CIS) of the urinary tract comprises 1-3% of all urothelial 
malignancies and is often a precursor to muscle-invasive urothelial carcinoma 
(UC). This study aimed to examine the expression profiles of preferentially 
expressed antigen in melanoma (PRAME), a cancer/testis antigen, and assess its 
diagnostic and therapeutic applications in CIS, given that its expression in UC 
has been minimally studied and has not yet been analyzed in CIS. We selected 
consecutive patients with CIS who underwent biopsy and/or transurethral tumor 
resection at the Osaka Medical and Pharmaceutical University Hospital. 
Immunohistochemical staining for PRAME and p53 was performed. Overall, 53 
patients with CIS (6 females and 47 males) were included. Notably, PRAME 
expression was observed in 23 of the 53 patients (43.4%), whereas it was absent 
in the non-neoplastic urothelial epithelium. Furthermore, no correlation was 
found between PRAME expression and aberrant p53 expression. Therefore, PRAME 
expression may serve as a useful marker for CIS of the urinary tract. 
Furthermore, PRAME may be a candidate for the novel therapeutic target for 
standard treatment-refractory CIS patients.

DOI: 10.3390/diagnostics13243636
PMCID: PMC10742698
PMID: 38132219

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


583. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2023 Dec 1;64(15):36. doi: 10.1167/iovs.64.15.36.

PRAME Expression: A Target for Cancer Immunotherapy and a Prognostic Factor in 
Uveal Melanoma.

Gelmi MC(1), Gezgin G(1), van der Velden PA(1), Luyten GPM(1), Luk SJ(2), 
Heemskerk MHM(2), Jager MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Hematology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: Uveal melanoma (UM) is a rare disease with a high mortality, and new 
therapeutic options are being investigated. Preferentially Expressed Antigen in 
Melanoma (PRAME) is a cancer testis antigen, expressed in the testis, but also 
in cancers, including uveal melanoma. PRAME is considered a target for immune 
therapy in several cancers, and PRAME-specific T cell clones have been shown to 
kill UM cells.
METHODS: We studied the literature on PRAME expression in hematological and 
solid malignancies, including UM, and its role as a target for immunotherapy. 
The distribution of tumor features was compared between PRAME-high and PRAME-low 
UM in a 64-patient cohort from the Leiden University Medical Center (LUMC) and 
in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) cohort of 80 cases and differential gene 
expression analysis was performed in the LUMC cohort.
RESULTS: PRAME is expressed in many malignancies, it is frequently associated 
with a negative prognosis, and can be the target of T cell receptor 
(TCR)-transduced T cells, a promising treatment option with high avidity and 
safety. In UM, PRAME is expressed in 26% to 45% of cases and is correlated with 
a worse prognosis. In the LUMC and the TCGA cohorts, high PRAME expression was 
associated with larger diameter, higher Tumor-Node-Metastasis (TNM) stage, more 
frequent gain of chromosome 8q, and an inflammatory phenotype.
CONCLUSIONS: We confirm that PRAME is associated with poor prognosis in UM and 
has a strong connection with extra copies of 8q. We show that PRAME-specific 
immunotherapy in an adjuvant setting is promising in treatment of malignancies, 
including UM.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.64.15.36
PMCID: PMC10755595
PMID: 38149971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: M.C. Gelmi, None; G. Gezgin, None; 
P.A. van der Velden, None; G.P.M. Luyten, None; S.J. Luk, None; M.H.M. 
Heemskerk, None; M.J. Jager, None


584. Pathol Res Pract. 2024 Jan 4;254:155096. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2024.155096.
Online  ahead of print.

PRAME expression and its prognostic significance in invasive breast carcinoma.

Korša L(1), Abramović M(2), Kovačević L(3), Milošević M(4), Podolski P(5), 
Prutki M(6), Marušić Z(7).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Department of Pathology and Cytology, University Hospital Centre 
Zagreb, Kišpatićeva 12, Zagreb, Croatia. Electronic address: 
lea.korsa@gmail.com.
(2)Clinical Department of Pathology and Cytology, University Hospital Centre 
Zagreb, Kišpatićeva 12, Zagreb, Croatia.
(3)Clinical Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University 
Hospital Centre Zagreb, Kišpatićeva 12, Zagreb, Croatia.
(4)Department of Environmental Health and Occupational and Sports Medicine, 
Andrija Stampar School of Public Health, Rockfellerova 4, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia; 
School of Medicine, University of Zagreb, Šalata 3, Zagreb, Croatia.
(5)Clinical Department of Oncology, University Hospital Centre Zagreb, 
Kišpatićeva 12, Zagreb, Croatia.
(6)Clinical Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University 
Hospital Centre Zagreb, Kišpatićeva 12, Zagreb, Croatia; School of Medicine, 
University of Zagreb, Šalata 3, Zagreb, Croatia.
(7)Clinical Department of Pathology and Cytology, University Hospital Centre 
Zagreb, Kišpatićeva 12, Zagreb, Croatia; School of Medicine, University of 
Zagreb, Šalata 3, Zagreb, Croatia.

OBJECTIVES: PRAME (PReferentially expressed Antigen in MElanoma) is a carcinoma 
testis antigen expressed in numerous tumour types. The aim of this study was to 
assess PRAME expression in different surrogate subtypes of breast carcinoma and 
its correlation with other prognostic factors.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 220 cases of invasive breast carcinoma were 
selected and categorized according to ER, PgR, HER2 status, and Ki67 
proliferation index in luminal A like, luminal B HER2+ like, luminal B HER2- 
negative like, HER2 positive like and triple-negative or basal-like. All cases 
were examined for PRAME expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC).
RESULTS: A PRAME-high profile was detected in 53 (24,1 %) of all examined breast 
carcinoma samples. A significantly higher expression of PRAME was detected in 
HER2-positive carcinomas (50 %) and TN breast carcinomas (40,54 %) compared to 
ER-positive (luminal-like) subtype of breast carcinomas (3,38 % luminal A and 
15,38 % luminal B). Percentage of PRAME positive tumour cells showed positive 
correlation with tumor size, Ki67 proliferation index, HER2 status, nuclear 
grade, TILs and presence of metastasis, and negative correlation with ER status 
and disease-free survival (DFS).
CONCLUSION: Our study showed that HER2 positive and TN breast carcinomas more 
commonly express PRAME than ER positive carcinomas and that PRAME expression 
shows positive correlation with certain prognostic factors, however PRAME wasn't 
revealed as an independent prognostic factor in our study. The importance of 
PRAME expression in breast carcinoma lies in its potential use as an 
immunotherapeutic target, particularly in patients with limited therapeutic 
options.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2024.155096
PMID: 38219495

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.
